Title: Deep Research, Shallow Evaluation: A Case Study in Meta-Evaluation for Long-Form QA Benchmarks

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.06942v1

Published Time: Tue, 10 Mar 2026 00:19:51 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
# Deep Research, Shallow Evaluation: A Case Study in Meta-Evaluation for Long-Form QA Benchmarks 

Jena D. Hwang Varsha Kishore Amanpreet Singh Dany Haddad Aakanksha Naik Malachi Hamada Jonathan Bragg Mike D’Arcy Daniel S. Weld Lucy Lu Wang Doug Downey Sergey Feldman 

Allen Institute for AI 

> {jenah, sergey}@allenai.org

Abstract 

Recent advances have made long-form re-port–generating systems widely available. This has prompted evaluation frameworks that use LLM-as-judge protocols and claim verification, along with meta-evaluation frameworks that seek to validate these methods. Many of the meta-evaluations estimate an evaluation qual-ity’s by comparing its assessments against hu-man pairwise preferences. Prior work, how-ever, suggests that human pairwise preference may be overly simplistic and can fail to cap-ture nuances of expert expectations. We con-duct a case study in meta-evaluation for long-form QA benchmarks using ScholarQA-CS2 ,a benchmark designed for assessing retrieval-augmented deep-research QA in the scien-tific domain. We comprehensively validate the benchmark through human pairwise pref-erence judgments, then critically examine the strengths, weaknesses, and confounders of this approach. We show that pairwise preference rankings are best suited for system-level eval-uation, while explicit metric-wise annotations and expert annotators are critical for reliable metric-level assessment, with subjectivity re-maining a key challenge. Based on our find-ings, we offer practical guidelines for designing future meta-evaluations that better align evalu-ation methods, annotator expertise, and report-ing practices. By surfacing these methodolog-ical challenges, we aim to advance evaluation standards for deep-research systems. 

1 Introduction 

In the last few years, we have witnessed rapid progress of deep-research systems, with the re-lease of many automated systems for long-form QA. Both proprietary and open services such as OpenAI Deep Research (OpenAI, 2025), Elicit (Elicit, 2024), Perplexity (Perplexity AI, 2024), ScholarQA (Singh et al., 2025), and Storm (Shao  

> §allenai/ai2-scholarqa-eval

et al., 2024) provide agentic implementations that plan, retrieve, and synthesize a large collection of documents to produce long-form reports for user queries. In response, a growing collection of evalu-ation frameworks and benchmarks have emerged to assess the quality of system generations, intro-ducing methods such as LLM-as-a-judge protocols, rubric-based metrics, and claim verification. With many of the recent frameworks relying on large language models (LLMs) as evaluation judges, it has become standard practice to validate these auto-mated judgments through comparisons with human pairwise preferences (Bosse et al., 2025; Li et al., 2025b), which we call overall preference ranking .These validation efforts rest on the assumption that when a benchmark can precisely enumerate aspects of a “good” report and measure them successfully, these measures should meaningfully approximate human expectations for quality reports. The reality, however, is that these contemporary deep-research benchmark validation practices tend to be overly simplistic in nature, treating align-ment with overall human preference ranking as sufficient despite existing evidence that human pref-erence is multi-faceted and context-dependent (Hu et al., 2023; Warren et al., 2011) and that such alignment can fail to capture the nuances of ex-pert expectations (Zhao et al., 2025; Szymanski et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2023; Xu et al., 2023). An underlying issue is that we lack systematic under-standing of the factors that drive this misalignment: how different forms of human annotation protocols, varying levels of annotator expertise, or other in-herent subjective factors shape the apparent agree-ments between humans and LLM-judged metrics. As a result, we are left to draw meaningful infer-ences from numeric values with ‘higher-is-better’ expectations, while lacking clear understanding of whether strong system-level agreement with hu-man preference truly indicates that the employed metrics capture the intended dimensions of quality. 1

> arXiv:2603.06942v1 [cs.CL] 6 Mar 2026

In this work, we address this gap by investigating utility and pitfalls of using pairwise human prefer-ence judgment for meta-evaluation of long-form research benchmarks within the scientific domain. We ask: to what extent do current LLM-based eval-uation metrics really reflect expert judgments about different dimensions of answer quality, and how does this depend on (i) how we collect those human judgments and (ii) how versed the experts are in the specific focus of the questions? We focus our meta-evaluation efforts on 

ScholarQA-CS2 , a recent benchmark that evalu-ates deep research agents based on user-input re-search questions and system-generated long-form responses. We compare the benchmark’s results against human preference rankings to surface the merits and shortcomings of the meta-evaluation method. We also carefully design additional ex-pert annotation settings to investigate effects of metric-wise annotations and depth of annotator ex-pertise on evaluation results, taking stock of po-tential confounders and surfacing key caveats in these design choices. Through this study, we aim to identify limitations and challenges of our current meta-evaluation approaches, and provide recom-mendations for improving evaluation practices in the field. Our contributions are as follows: • We present comprehensive meta-evaluation of the recent deep-research benchmark, 

ScholarQA-CS2 . Our present study is the first to examine how deep-research evaluation accuracy can vary when assessing overall system performance compared to individual instance or metric performance, and how annotator expertise influences evaluation accuracy and perceived subjectivity. • Our analysis reveals important findings, includ-ing: (1) comparisons to human pairwise evalu-ation is best suited for system-level evaluation, (2) explicit metric-wise annotation is necessary for fine-grained assessment, (3) depth of annota-tion expertise impacts their assessment, and (4) human evaluators exhibit notable subjectivity that underscore the challenge of the task. We also show these results hold consistently across different LLM judges. • Based on our findings, we provide practical guidance for future meta-evaluations of deep research benchmarks that emphasize closer at-tention to metrics assessed, annotator expertise, and reporting practices. 

2 Current Status of Long-form Scientific Report Evaluation 

The past year has seen a surge of research on evalu-ating long-form, retrieval-augmented deep research systems with benchmarks designed to assess both the quality of generated reports and how well they are grounded in external sources through citations. Given a query, these efforts grade system reports along dimensions of answer quality and citation support. We identify a total of 17 benchmarks that evaluate scientific or research-oriented sys-tems, and their corresponding meta-evaluations. These represent the subset that are most closely related to ScholarQA-CS2 and our present meta-evaluation. Table 1 summarizes 12 benchmarks that use agreements with human scores for their meta-evaluations (See Table 9 in Appendix for an expanded version). 

Evaluation Benchmarks. The listed bench-marks use an LLM-as-a-judge evaluation frame-work, in which an evaluator LLM processes the original query and the system-generated report, and computes metric scores that capture different as-pects of response quality. Content quality is generally assessed via factual check using a set of ground truth facts (abbrev. FC in Table 1) (Coelho et al., 2025; Fan et al., 2025; Pa-tel et al., 2025; Pradeep et al., 2025a; Wang et al., 2026); or by evaluating coverage of key aspects expected in high-quality answers via evaluation rubrics (RC, RCC). For some works, these key aspects encompass a range of content quality mea-sures like organization and attribution (RC) (Bosse et al., 2025; Du et al., 2025; Li et al., 2026; Wang et al., 2023, 2026; Zhang et al., 2025), while oth-ers restrict to content coverage only (RCC) (Bragg et al., 2025; Asai et al., 2024; Li et al., 2025b; Xu et al., 2025), with separate evaluations for style and citations. These works 1 include claim verification mea-sured in terms of citation recall (CR)—the frac-tion of claims in the report that are backed by evi-dence from the cited sources; and citation precision 

(CP)—the fraction of cited sources that support their associated claims. Unique to ScholarQA-CS2 

is the answer relevance (AR)—quantified as the proportion of relevant passages in a report. Further details are in §3. 

> 1With the exception of Trec Rag 2024 (Pradeep et al., 2025a), which specifically focuses on nugget (fact) detection.

2Human Meta-Evaluation (Expert Agreement w/ LLM-judge) 

Evaluation Dom Input Source 

Ret Src 

Metrics Used Expert Eval PPR Metric -Wise Reported Comp. Qs Assign # Sys Comp. IAA OA 

ScholarQA-CS2 

(Bragg et al., 2025) + present study Sci:CS real user queries 

PI AR,RCC, CP,CR 

✓ ✓ ✓✓ SC,IC, OA,MA, MC R,C,A 6 55.0% 51.6% OpenScholar (Asai et al., 2024) Sci written queries 

PI RCC,CP, CR,AQ 

✓ ✓ ✓* OA R 3 68% 50% DeepResearchGym (Coelho et al., 2025) Gen real user queries 

WI FC,AQ, CP,CR 

✓ ✓ ✓* SC,OA R 7 0.87 

Cohen κ

0.72 

Cohen κ

DeepResearch Bench (Du et al., 2025) Gen curated queries 

WS RC,CP, CR 

✓ ✓ - SC,OA R 4 68.4% 71.3% 

DeepResearch-ReportEval 

(Fan et al., 2025) Gen curated queries 

GT, WS FC,AQ ✓ ✓ - OA R 4 - 61.1% ResearchQA (Li et al., 2025b) Gen synthetic queries 

WS RCC,CR ✓ ✓ ✓ OA,MA R 3 84% 75% 

DeepResearch Bench II 

(Li et al., 2026) Gen curated tasks 

WS RC,CP, CR 

✓ - ✓* OA R

DeepScholar-Bench (Patel et al., 2025) Gen extracted abstracts 

GT, WS FC,CP, CR 

✓ - ✓* OA R

Trec Rag 2024 (Pradeep et al., 2025a) Gen written topics 

GT FC ✓ - ✓ SC,MC R

DeepResearchEval (Wang et al., 2026) Gen synthetic tasks 

WS FC,RC, CP 

✓ - ✓∗ OA R

ResearcherBench (Xu et al., 2025) Sci:AI synthetic queries 

WS RCC,CP, CR 

✓ - ✓* OA R

FINDER (Zhang et al., 2025) Gen curated queries 

WS RC,CP, CR 

✓ - ✓ MA,OA R              

> COLUMNS: Input Source: Sources of input (e.g., queries, topics) in the benchmark. "Curated" and "written" queries stand in for to "expert-curated" and "expert-written", respectively.
> Expert Eval: Does the evaluation use comparison to expert human annotation?; PPR: Pairwise preference ranking used for meta-evaluation;
> Last 3 columns: For papers evaluating on pairwise-preference ranking (PPR) only, how many report-generating systems are compared ( # Sys Comp. ), what is their reported inter-annotator agreement ( IAA ), and what is their reported human-model overall agreement ( OA )?
> ABBREVS: Retrieval Sources: {PI: Paper index, WI: Webpage index, WS: Web Search, GT: Groundtruth docs};
> Metrics Used :{FC: Fact Check, RC: Rubric Coverage, RCC: Rubric Coverage restricted to content, CP: Citation Precision, CR: Citation Recall, AQ: Answer Quality};
> Metric-wise Meta Evaluation: human eval specifically designed for { ✓✓ : all metrics ✓: a subset of metrics, ✓*: a subset of metrics, only overall score reported};
> Reported Comparisons: {SC: system correlation, IC: instance correlation, OA: overall agreement, MA: metric-wise agreement, MC: metric-wise correlation};
> Qs Assigned: {R: randomly assigned Qs, C: expert chosen Qs, A: expert authored Qs}

Table 1: We summarize benchmarks that evaluate scientific or research-oriented systems and represent the subset that are most closely related to ScholarQA-CS2 . Ordered alphabetically by author. 

Beyond these works, benchmarks also assess the quality of research-based generated outputs with differing evaluative objectives such as clinical con-versation & reasoning (Arora et al., 2025; Chen et al., 2025; Gupta et al., 2024), hypothesis gener-ation & ideation (Moussa et al., 2025), and deep-research reasoning & planning (Gupta et al., 2025). 

Meta-Evaluation. Most current meta-evaluations rely on expert annotations, most commonly through pairwise preference ranking 

(abbrev. as PPR in Table 1), where expert annotators compare two system outputs for the same query and indicate their overall preference. Performance is typically reported as system-level agreement (SC) or correlations between model scores and aggregate "gold" human preferences (OA). Limited number of works include instance level correlations (IC) or fine-grained evaluations that target the design of the metrics in the benchmark, often reported as agreement(MA) or correlation (MC). In addition to these aspects, our meta-evaluation extends beyond standard practices by including comprehensive metric-specific human annotations and exploring expertise-targeted evaluation via con-trolled question assignment ("Q Assigned") to in-vestigate the effects of annotator expertise and query authorship. As we will show in this paper metric-specific comparisons enable interpretable insight into how well individual evaluation aspects measure their intended targets. This approach also helps disentangle successes from failures of the evaluation along dimensions of judgment not cap-tured by any single metric. Finally, for papers that report on pairwise-preference annotation results in Table 1, we include 3the reported inter-annotator agreement (IAA), over-all agreement score (OA), and the number of report generator system the human evaluation compares. We reference these values in §6. 

3 ScholarQA-CS2 Benchmark 

In this section, we provide a brief overview of 

ScholarQA-CS2 and describe the metrics used in the benchmark in some detail as we adopt them in defining our meta-evaluation settings. 

ScholarQA-CS2 was recently released as a part of a suite of agentic evaluation framework called AstaBench (Bragg et al., 2025). It is designed to evaluate deep research systems, in particular, sys-tems that use retrieval-augmented generation to produce reports that are grounded in cited literature. The evaluation takes as input a user query and a generated report, and assesses the report along four constituent measures of answer quality based on report content and its attributions. The final output score is an average of the four metrics, individually described below. 

ScholarQA-CS2 uses LLM as judge, adopting Gemini-2.5-Flash for its strong accuracy-cost trade-off (further explored in §5). The benchmark con-sists of 100 real CS-domain queries in the test set and 100 queries in the dev set. The evaluation benchmarks 10 systems: 8 deep-research agent sys-tems and 2 frontier LLMs. 

Metrics: Answer Recall. This metric measures the fraction of necessary points or "rubric ingredi-ents" covered by the report. Each question has an 

answer rubric that identifies the key ingredients that a correct answer must include. These are con-tent rubrics that focus on the main substance and information a report should contain. This approach (i.e., RCC shown in Table 1) diverges from gen-eral rubric coverage measure (RC) that includes ingredients that measure writing mechanics such as structure, clarity, and formatting. The rubric generation is fully automated. Similar to recent TREC information retrieval competitions, (Pradeep et al., 2025b), candidate ingredients are pooled using claude-opus-4-20250514 and are merged subsequently. We validate our rubrics by comparing them against human-created and LLM-generated versions through expert annotation (de-tails in §A.4). 

Metric: Answer Relevance. This metric is de-fined as the fraction of paragraphs in the report that directly address the question. Given the full report, the LLM judge is instructed to flag all irrelevant paragraphs. Our initial qualitative analysis revealed that deep research systems more commonly err by straying off-topic rather than through outright hallu-cination. Consistent with this finding, the answer relevance metric measures this error and penal-izes passages that don’t directly address the query according to the LLM judge. To the best of our knowledge, answer relevance evaluation is the first of its kind in evaluating a deep research system response based on relevance. 

Metrics: Citation Precision and Citation Recall. Citation precision measures the proportion of ci-tations that fully or partially support the claims to which they are attached, and citation recall mea-sures the proportion of claims that are fully sup-ported by their accompanying citations. For each section, the LLM judge is instructed to identify a list of claims and their corresponding citations, and judge whether the claims are fully supported by the citations and which of the provided citations support the associated claim. To evaluate claim support, the citation metrics require evidence excerpts from the cited sources, which the 8 benchmarked deep-research agent sys-tems are capable of producing. In case only the source title is available, 2 a half-credit is awarded based on the LLM judgment. The final citation recall measure is an average over claims and the citation precision is the average of these scores macro-averaged by claim. 

4 Meta-Evaluation via Comparisons to Human Pairwise Judgments 

Pairwise human judgment is generally favored in long-form generation meta-evaluation for pro-viding a cost-effective, yet competent approach that yields a consistent ranking of systems or out-puts (Liu et al., 2025). Relative preference rating sidesteps the limitations of often conflicting nu-anced human judgments by relieving the annotators from the need to understand and apply precise defi-nitions of individual criteria, taking advantage of fundamentally comparative nature of human deci-sion (Stewart et al., 2006). This is particularly use-ful for setups like deep research, where the absence of a single “correct” answer makes absolute scor-ing challenging (Chiang et al., 2024; Zhao et al., 

> 2The two benchmarked LLMs often return only titles. It can also happen if the particular sources’ texts are unavailable to the deep-research system e.g. for copyright reasons.

4Given                          

> Reports:
> Overall Preference Ranking
> ABC
> ✓Answer Relevance
> ✓Answer Recall
> ✓Citation Precision
> ✓Citation Recall
> Annotation
> Setups
> (§4.1)
> Expert
> assigns:
> For each
> Report: A
> Expert
> judges:
> (each metric)
> Metric-Wise Judgements
> Experimental
> Settings
> (§4.2)
> Setting 1: Questions randomly assigned
> Setting 2: Questions chosen by the expert — “Near Expert”
> Setting 3: Questions written by the expert — “Deep Expert”
> ABCABBCAC
> BWINS !BWINS !
> TIE BWINS !
> TIE
> 0.72 0.34 0.73 CWINS !
> Calculated using
> tie thresholds (§4.1)
> Score
> Agreement
> Score
> Disagreements
> 3-way comparison Pairwise comparison Overall Preference Ranking Metric-Wise Judgements

Figure 1: Our experimental settings for meta-evaluation of ScholarQA-CS2 . We investigate meta-evaluation that assesses agreement between evaluation score and expert preference ranking (Setting 1). We also investigate set-tings (Settings 2 & 3) that compare evaluation scores against metric-wise judgment annotation and control for annotator expertise level. 

2025). Relative judgments thus help circumvent these issues, rendering evaluations easier and more reliable for annotators. Relative comparisons can also surface fine distinctions that may be missed in a predefined, absolute point-wise judgment setting (Yan et al., 2022; Clarke et al., 2020). Thus, following the standard long-form gener-ation meta-evaluation standards in our field, we design human pairwise assessments and compare them to ScholarQA-CS2 score (also referred to as “model score"; see Figure 1): (i) We collect overall preference judgments where experts rank answer reports according to their preferences and analyze the results at system and instance level. 3 (ii) We generalize beyond overall preference-based meta-evaluation and conduct systematic human annota-tion over each of the four metric-wise dimensions evaluated in ScholarQA-CS2 . (iii) We further con-trol for the expertise level of our annotators to as-sess its effect in human-LLM agreements for the above settings. Together, these settings allow us to examine the role of each component of our LLM-judge evaluation and assess its contribution to over-all evaluation accuracy and its correspondence to various aspects of human judgment. Below, we describe our annotation task setups (§4.1) and the experimental settings (§4.2) used across all human evaluation experiments conducted as part of our meta-evaluation, then summarize our principal findings in the following section (§5). 

> 3

Instance-level agreement compares each evaluation score to annotator label, before aggregation. System-level agree-ment compares aggregated evaluation scores, averaged across a system’s instances, to aggregated human annotations. 

4.1 Annotation Setup Annotators. We source from a pool of 5 experts (4 Ph.D. and 1 M.S.) through the annotator recruit-ment platform Upwork. Four are CS experts, while one specializes in Math with attested CS annotation history. They were paid $31/hour on average. 

Overall preference ranking. For overall pref-erence ranking annotation , our experts are pre-sented with a question and reports generated by three different systems, sampled from a pool of six systems: ScholarQA-CS2 (Bragg et al., 2025), ScholarQA-CS2 -SFT, 4 Elicit (Elicit, 2024), OpenAI-DR (OpenAI, 2025), Perplexity (Perplex-ity AI, 2024), and Storm (Shao et al., 2024). For each 3-way comparison, the annotators are first asked to read each report individually. After read-ing the reports, they rank the responses by assign-ing gold, silver, and bronze medals based on overall answer quality, with ties permitted. In assigning the rankings, they are specifically asked to use their own preference judgement. The average completion time for each 3-way comparison was 45-50 minutes. Annotation guide-lines, illustrative procedure, and screenshots of the interface used is included in §A.1. 

Metric-wise judgments. For metric-wise annota-tion, we explicitly introduce metric-specific anno-tations for each report. As with overall preference annotation, each task consists of a question and reports from three systems For each report, the annotator completes three sub-annotation tasks cor-responding to answer relevance, answer recall, and citation recall & precision. For judging answer relevance, annotators use checkboxes to flag irrelevant passages during read-ing. 5 Answer recall is evaluated as a single ques-tion: “Did the report cover all aspects of the answer you expected for it to cover?” with answer choice on a 5-point Likert scale. For citation evaluation, the experts pick 5-8 claims central to the report and assess if the claims were fully/partially supported by the associated citation(s) (i.e., citation recall) and surface the number of citations that were rele-vant to the claim given its associated citations (i.e., citation precision ). For this task, the experts are asked to carefully consult the evidence provided by 

> 4

ScholarQA-CS2 -SFT is a Qwen3-8B model finetuned on QA pairs collected from production SciQA .

> 5

The annotation instructions use the contents of the prompt used for our evaluator model. 

5All Data Expert-(IAA: 55.0%) Agreed            

> System-level Corr ( τ-b) 0.40 0.60
> ,→w/o Elicit 0.70 1.00
> Instance-level Corr ( τ-b) 0.25 0.36

Table 2: System and sample-level correlations (Kendall 

τ -b) and Human IAA. Our system-level τ s range from moderate-to-strong. The strong correlations are not reflected at instance-level comparison. 

the report. 6 Following completion of these three sub-annotation tasks for each of the three answers, the annotator provides overall preference ranking as in the prior task setup. The average completion time for each 3-way comparison in this metric-wise plus overall setting was 90 minutes. The screenshots of the interface used is included in §A.1. 

Result tally. Our annotations result in 3-way rank-ings over the answering reports. We convert these results (overall and metric-wise) into pairwise judg-ments between each of the three pairs of report (Fig-ure 5 in §A). The conversion of annotated values to scores is detailed in §A.2. Since human judgments include ties, we use thresholds to determine ties in ScholarQA-CS2 ’s numeric scores during conver-sion to ensure a level of fairness when the scores are close enough to be considered ties. The process of tie thresholding is detailed in §A.3. metric-wise 

overall score is the average of the expert’s individ-ual metric scores, calculated at instance-level, to serve as comparison to model overall score. 

4.2 Experimental Settings Setting 1: Overall Preference ; Random assign-ment. We conduct the overall pairwise prefer-ence task over questions in our test and dev set. The questions were randomly selected for each an-notator. We collect 3-way comparisons in the over-all pairwise setting for 100 dev instances and 100 test instances, resulting in a total of 600 pairwise judgments. All comparisons are doubly annotated to compute inter-annotator agreement (IAA). We compare LLM-judge results against collected hu-man preferences, reporting Kendall’s τ -b (Table 2) and pairwise agreement percentage (Table 3). 7      

> 6For each report we collect four additional assessments on a 5-point scale: informativeness ,background ,organization ,and flow (annotation step is marked with asterisk in §A.1).
> 7Cases in which one annotator declares a tie and the other does not are counted as a disagreement for our IAA. If ties are relaxed by awarding half-credit in such cases, our IAA improves from the reported 55.0% to 82.9%. The choice to

Setting 2: Metric-wise ; Near-expert assign-ment. In this setting, experts are asked to select questions aligned with their own expertise by re-viewing all questions from the test set not assigned during previous rounds of annotation and catego-rize each as being within , near , or outside their area of expertise. For each annotator, we discard the outside category, and select 5 questions per ex-pert giving priority to the within label. Each expert then provided judgments on reports for their five questions in the metric-wise annotation task setup. For this setting, we only employ the four annota-tors with expertise in CS as all our questions are from the CS domain. In this manner, we collect 60 pairwise annotations across 20 questions. The results are summarized in Table 4. 

Setting 3: Metric-wise ; Deep-expert assign-ment. To ensure even stronger alignment with the annotator’s specific expertise, we conduct the same experiment as Setting 2 but asking each ex-pert to write five new questions on a topic that they are intimately familiar with, ideally relating to questions from their current or past research. We additional guidance and instructions to ensure ques-tion quality. By having experts evaluate answers to their own questions, we ensure that evaluations are grounded in deep domain knowledge and a com-plete understanding of what is required to answer the question, thereby reducing the potential noise of surface-level evaluations. The reports are format-ted and the rubric generation pipeline (described in § 3) is used to compile question-specific rubrics. We employ all 5 annotators in this setting, collect-ing 75 pairwise annotations across 25 questions. 8

We summarize our results in Table 4. 

5 Principal Findings 

We organize our results into four principal findings. Finding 1: Overall preference ranking is a useful meta-evaluation strategy for assess-ments of overall system performance, but is not suited for assessing performance at instance- or metric-level. 

As shown in Table 2 , we observe a moderate system-level correlation of 0.40. Over the subset 

> use thresholds to calculate model’s winner was based on this decision to retain human ties.
> 8For deep-expert setting, we substitute Elicit with Future-House’s Falcon (https://edisonscientific.gitbook.io/). We were unable to obtain access to Elicit for this experiment.

6Human Score Model Score All Data Expert-Agreed           

> Overall preference ranking
> Overall Score 51.6% 62.4% Answer Relev. 34.5% 35.2% Answer Recall 47.3% 54.3% Citation Prec. 42.3% 59.0% Citation Recall 41.9% 58.4%

Table 3: Pairwise agreements between expert overall preference ranking vs. model scores. Our overall score agreement approaches IAA levels, however, individual metric comparison to human preference show lower levels of agreement. 

of data where all experts agree (i.e., 100% IAA), we observe a stronger correlation of 0.60. Further, when Elicit outputs are excluded from the evalu-ation, the system-level correlation rises markedly to 0.70 across all pairs and reaches a wildly high coefficient of 1.00 for expert-agreed instances. De-spite high system-level correlations, the instance-level correlation is substantially weaker at 0.25 for all data, which rises to 0.36 for expert-agreed in-stances. As it was for system-level, instance-level relationship is affected by a systematic disagree-ment over Elicit instances. 9

In Table 3 , we compare expert’s preferences against ScholarQA-CS2 ’s overall score (a com-puted average of four metrics) and against each of the individual metrics. We observe an overall score agreement of 51.6%, a few points shy of the IAA (55.0%), which suggest that models agree at simi-lar levels as human judges themselves. Comparing 

preference ranking against individual metrics, we see lower levels of score agreements: answer recall and citation metrics show similar levels of agree-ment, ranging from 42-47% for the full dataset and 54-59% for expert-agreed cases. Answer relevance agreement is comparatively quite low, capped at 35.2% even for expert-agreed instances. That over-all score agreement is higher than that of any in-dividual metric suggests that the metrics together capture different facets of human judgment, com-plementing one another in ways that counterbal-ance their individual weaknesses and collectively achieving more than any single metric. 

> 9

Manual inspection of error cases showed a consistent pattern of disagreement between human judgments and our evaluation method when the comparison set included an Elicit-generated report, human raters tending to rank the Elicit report lower than the model score. Because we convert all reports presented to annotators in the same format in order to min-imize potential stylistic bias towards any particular agent’s report, the systematic human preference we observe for Elicit instances may be due in part to our edits that diverge from their intended presentation.                                                       

> Human-Model Score comparison Near-Expert Deep-Expert Human Score Model Score agree. τ-b agree. τ-b
> Overall preference ranking
> Overall score 65.0% 0.50 57.3% 0.25 Answer relev. 31.7% 0.00 22.7% -0.02 Answer recall 25.0% 0.00 25.3% 0.09 Citation prec. 53.3% 0.38 49.3% 0.22 Citation recall 43.3% 0.31 49.3% 0.29
> Metric-wise  Overall score Overall score 66.7% 0.42 58.7% 0.33 Answer relev. Answer relev. 43.3% 0.26 54.7% 0.23 Answer recall Answer recall 58.3% 0.49 60.0% 0.21 Citation prec. Citation prec. 50.0% 0.32 50.7% 0.27 Citation recall Citation recall 63.3% 0.59 53.3% 0.43

Table 4: Results from per metric human evaluation with expertise control. We compare instance-level agreement between model scores and two human signals: (TOP) human preference, and (BOTTOM) metric-wise human ratings collected in a setup parallel to ScholarQA-CS2 

metrics. The results include thresholded ties (see §4.1). Overall score (for both human and model) is the com-puted average of the metric scores at instance-level. 

Taken together, our findings indicate that pref-erence ranking, although widely used for its sim-plicity, may not necessarily reflect performance across fine-grained evaluation dimensions such as relevance or recall. Further, strong agreement at the system-level does not necessarily imply strong agreement when assessing individual reports (instance-level) or in gauging performance on a par-ticular metric. Finding 2: Explicit metric-wise annotation enables meta-evaluation at the metric level. 

The results in Table 4 reveal a clear contrast be-tween the ability of model-computed metrics to pre-dict human preference ranking judgements versus their alignment with metric-wise human ratings. Model score agreements with preference rank-ing (top rows) sees a similar trend as what we found in Table 3. The overall score agreements are at 65.0% and 57.3% for near- and deep-expert, respectively) with stronger τ s in comparison to metric-level agreements. The relationship to most model metrics in contrast is surprisingly weak, of-ten approaching chance levels with τ values near zero. Citation quality again fares better, overall, suggesting that experts attend to citation validity even when making broad preference judgments. When experts judge on metric-wise rating (bot-tom rows), however, the metric-level alignment im-proves substantially. Across both near- and deep-expert settings, metrics generally exhibit higher agreement relative to the preference ranking setup. The agreements for answer recall sees highest ben-efit of explicit task alignment from both the agree-7Figure 2: When evaluating answer relevance disagree-ments, near- and deep-experts choose to keep their own judgments at similar rates; however, when they do not, near-experts tend to defer to the LLM’s judgment more often than deep-experts. 

ment and correlation vantage points. Answer rel-evance also improves consistently, with τ values rising to a low-to-moderate range. Our citation annotation setup (§4.2) allowed ex-perts to select their own claims. This naturally led to mismatches with the LLM judge’s claim selec-tion. To enable more methodologically consistent comparison, we conducted a follow-up citation an-notation study that controlled for claim span se-lection (details in §A.5). This stronger alignment between model and human evaluation setting in-creased agreement to 69% for citation recall and 75% for citation precision, with the LLM judge typ-ically more lenient than human assessors. Elicit’s reports emerged as a consistent source of disagree-ment; excluding them raised agreement to 75% and 81% for citation recall and precision, respectively. Our results show that explicit metric-to-metric comparisons provide interpretable insights into how well individual evaluation aspects measure what they were intended to evaluate . Whereas over-all agreement may reflect dimensions not captured by any individual metrics (Finding 4), metric-wise agreement helps disentangle whether low overall agreement is due to low agreement in existing met-ric evaluators, or due to missing metrics. Finding 3: Depth of annotator expertise has a significant effect on their assessments. 

Comparing near- and deep-expert settings in Ta-ble 4 , we observe that the level of annotator exper-tise affects each metric-wise evaluation differently. Answer recall and citation precision see minimal effect. Citation recall shows a drop in agreement, suggesting that more in-depth knowledge of rele-vant literature leads the annotators to have more specific expectations over how extensively a claim should be supported. Deep-expertise sees its strongest effect in the answer relevance assessment: when we control for a tighter expertise alignment, the agreement in-creases from 43.3% (near-expert) to 54.7% (deep-expert), narrowing the human-model disagreement gap. To better understanding of the differences between the two settings, we conduct a follow up experiment (Figure 2; details in A.6), where the experts are asked to review answer relevance in-stances where LLM judge disagreed with their own answers by choosing to keep their own answer, to switch to the model answer (given model rationale), or to accept the model answer as a subjective but viable choice. There, we find that experts choose to keep their answer at similar rates in near- and deep-expert settings (15-17% of the time), but they tend to defer to the model answer significantly more often in the near-expert than in the deep-expert set-ting. Instead of switching, deep experts generally view differences as subjective. It is reasonable to expect that that annotators with greater expertise would reduce annotation noise, leading to higher agreement with the evalua-tion. However, the opposite appears to be true: the correlation is consistently higher in the near-expert setting than in the deep-expert setting. Broadly, this suggests that the LLMs possess sufficient domain knowledge to be instructed to serve near-expert judges and are capable of estimating how a general researcher might assess a report. However, it is yet incapable of mirroring deep-expert assessment capabilities and cannot capture the characteristics of a deep-expert evaluation. In other words, our results indicate that an LLM judge aligns more closely near-expert than with the deep-expert .Finding 4: Observed subjectivity in human evaluation underscores task difficulty. 

Notably, our reported IAA rate is 55.0%, meaning that experts agree on a label on about half of the evaluated instances, which speaks of the difficulty of the task and the inherent subjectivity of judging reports even at expert level setting. This raises the question: where is the subjectivity arising from? If we compare an expert’s preference rankings 

and the model scores (Figure 3) from our metric-wise results (Table 4), we observe that model scores’ alignment with an expert’s preferences vary substantially across annotators. Although the cor-relation seems generally positive with the citation metrics (with GrandTiger as a notable exception), no single metric uniformly captures how experts assess overall quality. 8Figure 3: Expert preference ranking vs. model scores. Model score alignments with expert preferences vary substantially across annotators. 

Our results strongly indicate that experts differ in their internal calibration of answer quality. A com-parison between an expert’s preference rankings 

and their own metric-wise judgments obtained in Settings 2 and 3 (Figure 4) shows expert-specific id-iosyncracies. For instance, FancyFox ’s preferences align most strongly with their own assessments of answer relevance and recall, whereas WoolyCat 

places substantially higher weight on citation recall and answer relevance. In fact, these subjective ex-pectations of answer quality extend to other aspects of writing we do not consider in ScholarQA-CS2 .Analysis of the additional qualitative assessment we collected (see footnote 6) also suggest exter-nal factors filter into each annotator’s preferences (Figure 9) at varying levels of importance. The divergence in how experts weigh different quality dimensions, despite using the same evalua-tion criteria, suggests that interpretive differences are fundamental to the assessment task. In practice, each expert appears to calibrate what constitutes a "good" answer according to their own internal stan-dards—standards that differ not just in emphasis but in their underlying conceptualization of quality. These findings suggest that subjective variation in human preference judgments, in a large part, stems from expert-specific notions of answer quality. 

6 Additional Findings 

In this section, we briefly examine questions raised by our results in two additional findings. Finding 5: Agreement statistics must be in-terpreted in the context of set of systems evaluated. 

A side-by-side comparison of our IAA and overall preference agreement scores shows that our scores are generally lower than the values reported by   

> Figure 4: Expert preference ranking vs. expert’s metric-wise scores obtained in annotations settings 2 & 3. The expert preferences alignments with their own scores vary substantially across annotators.

our peers (Table 1). This is in part explained by how ties are handled in our IAA and agreement calculations. 7 We also find that the observed levels of IAA and model-human overall agreement is af-fected by how many systems are being evaluated and how similar they are in their quality. We compare IAA and model–human overall agreement across a subset of our evaluated sys-tems varying in number and quality (analysis de-tailed in Appendix A.7). When the evaluated sys-tems are close in quality, preference judgments become more difficult, leading to lower agreement among human annotators and between evaluators and humans. Restricting the comparison to three more distinct systems (high-, medium-, and low-performing) yields substantially higher agreement. The results reported in Table 3 are computed over six systems, including several of similar quality, which results in lower observed agreement. Finding 6: Our findings remain consistent across different LLM families & evaluators. 

We also verify that our meta-evaluation results hold across a variety of different LLM evaluators for scoring of system outputs, beyond the one used by ScholarQA-CS2 (gemini-2.5-flash). We rerun 

ScholarQA-CS2 using six LLMs with large context windows, as required by the benchmark, over the same set of reports used in §4. We then repeat the overall preference analysis (§4.2). Across all major alternative LLM judges tested, overall agreements and correlations remain stable (Table 5). We observe variances at metric-level, most notably with the GPT models that see an-swer relevance score agreement (approx. 10-20 points) higher than other models. Otherwise, the results show agreements and correlation scores that 9Gemini-flash Gemini-pro Claude-sonnet Claude-sonnet-r GPT-5.1 GPT-5 (test only) agree. τ -b agree. τ -b agree. τ -b agree. τ -b agree. τ -b agree. τ -bs overall score 51.8% 0.22 52.0% 0.24 57.1% 0.31 53.3% 0.25 55.2% 0.28 51.5% 0.24 answer relev. 29.6% -0.07 30.4% -0.12 24.3% 0.00 25.8% -0.14 40.5% 0.01 39.2% -0.03 answer recall 45.9% 0.15 48.1% 0.16 47.3% 0.14 48.4% 0.15 48.7% 0.17 44.6% 0.10 citation prec. 40.5% 0.20 41.0% 0.19 42.5% 0.25 40.8% 0.19 38.9% 0.20 43.3% 0.23 citation recall 40.2% 0.15 42.9% 0.21 44.4% 0.25 43.4% 0.18 43.8% 0.26 42.3% 0.22                         

> all data agreed all data agreed all data agreed all data agreed all data agreed all data agreed
> system corr ( τ-b) 0.40 0.60 0.40 0.69 0.48 0.70 0.40 0.60 0.40 0.73 0.53 0.73

Table 5: Evaluation results using six alternative LLM judges: Gemini-2.5-flash (Gemini-flash, fresh run), Gemini-2.5-pro (Gemini-pro), Claude-sonnet-4.5 with (Claude-sonnet-r) and without reasoning (Claude-sonnet), GPT-5.1 without reasoning, and reasoning GPT-5. We limit reasoning GPT-5.1 run to test set due to cost constraints. We present the agreement (TOP) and the system correlations (BOTTOM) for both all data and expert-agreed subset. 

are generally consistent with our earlier experi-ments. Moreover, computing the cross-correlations between the different model overall scores shows strong relationship (Pearson r of 0.73-0.92; Figure 10). The results together indicate that our main findings are robust across evaluator choice, and not an artifact of a specific LLM judge. 

7 Recommendations 

Our findings reveal important limitations in current meta-evaluation practices and highlight the need for more nuanced approaches. We offer three key recommendations below. 

Recommendation 1. Human pairwise preference judgments is a tenable and effective approach at capturing relative performance of the system. How-ever, our Findings 1 & 2 suggest that comparison against preference judgment should be limited to assessing at the system-level. For individual metric assessment, we recommend human annotation that is specifically designed to mirror the LLM evalua-tor instructions. 

Recommendation 2. Our findings surface im-portant factors necessary for interpreting system-human agreement: metric-wise evaluation to dis-entangle annotator subjectivity from metric-based successes (Findings 2 & 4), annotator expertise (Finding 3), and the set of systems evaluated, which influences the magnitude of agreement val-ues (Finding 5). Alongside system-level or overall agreement scores, we recommend careful consid-eration of these contexts of evaluations. We also encourage reporting of disagreements, as greater transparency about these limitations acknowledges confounds in expert evaluation and helps identify avenues for improved meta-evaluation. 

Recommendation 3. In line with our recommen-dation 2, we also emphasize the need to carefully match between annotator expertise and the eval-uation goal. If the aim is to assess metrics that inherently require deep expertise, the study should recruit true domain experts who understand the topic’s nuances and can accurately judge the de-tailed content of the report. In such cases, deep-expertise can be ensured by asking experts to gen-erate their own questions, following clear guide-lines to ensure the questions are substantive and non-trivial. Conversely, if the objective is to vali-date LLM-judges that simulate general user assess-ments, near-expert annotators may provide more reliable ground truth than deep-experts, whose spe-cialized knowledge can introduce variability that diverges from the target population’s judgments. 

8 Conclusion 

We examine the validity of using human preference judgments as a meta-evaluation signal for LLM-based evaluators using ScholarQA-CS2 . Results show that overall rankings are best suited to sup-port system-level evaluation, metric-wise annota-tions are required for metric analysis, and annota-tor expertise significantly impacts evaluation out-comes. Our results also highlight the challenge of subjectivity in human judgments. We recommend targeted evaluation designs, careful selection of annotator expertise, and transparency around dis-agreement when validating automated evaluators for open-ended tasks. Beyond meta-evaluation, our findings suggest deep-research evaluation should be user-context sensitive. Inconsistencies across expert judgments often reflect their distinct preferences and notions of quality—rather than random noise. Our findings indicate that a one-size-fits-all evaluation is inher-ently limited in what it can capture. This points to the need for future evaluation frameworks that explicitly model the diversity of user expectations. 10 Limitations 

Our meta-evaluation relies on relatively small expert-labeled datasets in both near- and deep-expertise settings, reflecting the high cost of recruit-ing qualified scientific annotators. In addition, the human evaluation is based on a limited pool of do-main experts (five annotators), which may restrict the generalizability of our findings. Finally, like all LLM-based evaluation frameworks, our analysis may still be influenced by biases inherent to the underlying evaluator models. 

References 

Rahul K. Arora, Jason Wei, Rebecca Soskin Hicks, Pre-ston Bowman, Joaquin Quiñonero Candela, Foivos Tsimpourlas, Michael Sharman, Meghan Shah, An-drea Vallone, Alex Beutel, Johannes Heidecke, and Karan Singhal. 2025. Healthbench: Evaluating large language models towards improved human health. ArXiv, abs/2505.08775. Akari Asai, Jacqueline He, Rulin Shao, Weijia Shi, Amanpreet Singh, Joseph Chee Chang, Kyle Lo, Luca Soldaini, Sergey Feldman, Mike D’Arcy, and 1 others. 2024. Openscholar: Synthesizing scien-tific literature with retrieval-augmented lms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.14199. Nikos I. Bosse, Jon Evans, Robert G. Gambee, Daniel Hnyk, Peter Mühlbacher, Lawrence Phillips, Dan Schwarz, and Jack Wildman. 2025. Deep research bench: Evaluating ai web research agents. Preprint, arXiv:2506.06287. Jonathan Bragg, Mike D’Arcy, Nishant Balepur, Dan Bareket, Bhavana Dalvi, Sergey Feldman, Dany Had-dad, Jena D. Hwang, Peter Jansen, Varsha Kishore, Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder, Aakanksha Naik, Si-gal Rahamimov, Kyle Richardson, Amanpreet Singh, Harshit Surana, Aryeh Tiktinsky, Rosni Vasu, Guy Wiener, and 20 others. 2025. Astabench: Rigorous benchmarking of ai agents with a scientific research suite. Preprint, arXiv:2510.21652. Shan Chen, Pedro Moreira, Yuxin Xiao, Samuel Schmidgall, Jeremy L Warner, Hugo Aerts, Thomas Hartvigsen, Jack Gallifant, and Danielle S. Bit-terman. 2025. Medbrowsecomp: Benchmarking medical deep research and computer use. ArXiv ,abs/2505.14963. Wei-Lin Chiang, Lianmin Zheng, Ying Sheng, Anasta-sios Nikolas Angelopoulos, Tianle Li, Dacheng Li, Hao Zhang, Banghua Zhu, Michael Jordan, Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2024. Chatbot arena: An open platform for evaluating llms by human prefer-ence. Preprint, arXiv:2403.04132. Charles L. A. Clarke, Alexandra Vtyurina, and Mark D. Smucker. 2020. Assessing top- preferences. ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS) , 39:1 – 21. João Coelho, Jingjie Ning, Jingyuan He, Kangrui Mao, Abhijay Paladugu, Pranav Setlur, Jiahe Jin, Jamie Callan, João Magalhães, Bruno Martins, and Chenyan Xiong. 2025. Deepresearchgym: A free, transparent, and reproducible evaluation sandbox for deep research. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.19253. Mingxuan Du, Benfeng Xu, Chiwei Zhu, Xiaorui Wang, and Zhendong Mao. 2025. Deepresearch bench: A comprehensive benchmark for deep research agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.11763. Elicit. 2024. Elicit: The ai research assistant. https: //elicit.com .Tianyu Fan, Xinyao Niu, Yuxiang Zheng, Fengji Zhang, Chengen Huang, Bei Chen, Junyang Lin, and Chao Huang. 2025. Understanding deepresearch via re-ports. ArXiv, abs/2510.07861. Deepak Gupta, Dina Demner-Fushman, William R. Hersh, Steven Bedrick, and Kirk Roberts. 2024. Overview of trec 2024 biomedical generative re-trieval (biogen) track. ArXiv, abs/2411.18069. Nikita Gupta, Riju Chatterjee, Lukas Haas, Connie Tao, Andrew Wang, Chang Liu, Hidekazu Oiwa, Elena Gribovskaya, Jan Ackermann, John Blitzer, Sasha Goldshtein, and Dipanjan Das. 2025. Deepsearchqa: A benchmark for complex question answering over large-scale knowledge bases. Yebowen Hu, Kaiqiang Song, Sangwoo Cho, Xiaoyang Wang, Hassan Foroosh, and Fei Liu. 2023. Decipher-Pref: Analyzing influential factors in human prefer-ence judgments via GPT-4. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 8344–8357, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics. Abhinav Java, Ashmit Khandelwal, Sukruta Midi-geshi, Aaron Halfaker, Amit Deshpande, Navin Goyal, Ankur Gupta, Nagarajan Natarajan, and Amit Sharma. 2025. Characterizing deep research: Abenchmark and formal definition. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.04183. Minghao Li, Ying Zeng, Zhihao Cheng, Cong Ma, and Kai Jia. 2025a. Reportbench: Evaluating deep research agents via academic survey tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.15804. Ruizhe Li, Mingxuan Du, Benfeng Xu, Chiwei Zhu, Xiaorui Wang, and Zhendong Mao. 2026. Deepre-search bench ii: Diagnosing deep research agents via rubrics from expert report. Yifei S. Li, Allen Chang, Chaitanya Malaviya, and Mark Yatskar. 2025b. RESEARCHQA: Evaluating schol-arly question answering at scale across 75 fields with survey-mined questions and rubrics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.00496. 

11 Yinhong Liu, Han Zhou, Zhijiang Guo, Ehsan Shareghi, Ivan Vuli´ c, Anna Korhonen, and Nigel Collier. 2025. Aligning with human judgement: The role of pair-wise preference in large language model evaluators. Preprint, arXiv:2403.16950. Hanane Nour Moussa, Patrick Queiroz Da Silva, Daniel Adu-Ampratwum, Alyson East, Zitong Lu, Nikki Puccetti, Mingyi Xue, Huan Sun, Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder, and Sachin Kumar. 2025. Scholareval: Research idea evaluation grounded in literature. Preprint, arXiv:2510.16234. OpenAI. 2025. Introducing deep re-search. https://openai.com/index/ introducing-deep-research/ .Liana Patel, Negar Arabzadeh, Harshit Gupta, Ankita Sundar, Ion Stoica, Matei Zaharia, and Carlos Guestrin. 2025. Deepscholar-bench: A live bench-mark and automated evaluation for generative re-search synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.20033. Perplexity AI. 2024. Perplexity: Ask anything. https: //www.perplexity.ai .Ronak Pradeep, Nandan Thakur, Sahel Sharifymoghad-dam, Eric Zhang, Ryan Nguyen, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, and Jimmy Lin. 2025a. Rag-narök: A reusable RAG framework and baselines for TREC 2024 retrieval-augmented generation track. In Proceedings of the 47th European Conference on Information Retrieval (ECIR 2025) . Springer. Preprint available as arXiv:2406.16828. Ronak Pradeep, Nandan Thakur, Shivani Upadhyay, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, Ian Soboroff, Hoa Trang Dang, and Jimmy Lin. 2025b. The great nugget recall: Automating fact extraction and rag evaluation with large language models. In Proceedings of the 48th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , SIGIR ’25, page 180–190, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery. Yijia Shao, Yucheng Jiang, Theodore A. Kanell, Pe-ter Xu, Omar Khattab, and Monica S. Lam. 2024. Assisting in writing wikipedia-like articles from scratch with large language models. Preprint ,arXiv:2402.14207. Manasi Sharma, Chen Bo Calvin Zhang, Chaithanya Bandi, Clinton Wang, Ankit Aich, and 1 others. 2025. Researchrubrics: A benchmark of prompts and rubrics for evaluating deep research agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.07685. Amanpreet Singh, Joseph Chee Chang, Chloe Anas-tasiades, Dany Haddad, Aakanksha Naik, Amber Tanaka, Angele Zamarron, Cecile Nguyen, Jena D. Hwang, Jason Dunkleberger, Matt Latzke, Smita Rao, Jaron Lochner, Rob Evans, Rodney Kinney, Daniel S. Weld, Doug Downey, and Sergey Feldman. 2025. Ai2 scholar qa: Organized literature synthesis with attribution. Preprint, arXiv:2504.10861. Neil Stewart, Nick Chater, and Gordon D. A. Brown. 2006. Decision by sampling. Cognitive Psychology, 53:1–26. Annalisa Szymanski, Noah Ziems, Heather A. Eicher-Miller, Toby Jia-Jun Li, Meng Jiang, and Ronald A. Metoyer. 2024. Limitations of the llm-as-a-judge approach for evaluating llm outputs in expert knowl-edge tasks. Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces. Jiayu Wang, Yifei Ming, Riya Dulepet, Qinglin Chen, Austin Xu, Zixuan Ke, Frederic Sala, Aws Al-barghouthi, Caiming Xiong, and Shafiq Joty. 2025. Liveresearchbench: A live benchmark for user-centric deep research in the wild. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.14240. Lucy Lu Wang, Yulia Otmakhova, Jay DeYoung, Thinh Hung Truong, Bailey Kuehl, Erin Bransom, and Byron C. Wallace. 2023. Automated met-rics for medical multi-document summarization dis-agree with human evaluations. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 9871–9889, Toronto, Canada. Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics. Yibo Wang, Lei Wang, Yue Deng, Keming Wu, Yao Xiao, Huanjin Yao, Liwei Kang, Hai Ye, Yongcheng Jing, and Lidong Bing. 2026. Deepresearcheval: An automated framework for deep research task con-struction and agentic evaluation. Caleb Warren, A. Peter Mcgraw, and Leaf Van Boven. 2011. Values and preferences: Defining preference construction. In Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Cognitive Science. Fangyuan Xu, Yixiao Song, Mohit Iyyer, and Eun-sol Choi. 2023. A critical evaluation of evalua-tions for long-form question answering. ArXiv ,abs/2305.18201. Tianze Xu, Pengrui Lu, Lyumanshan Ye, Xiangkun Hu, and Pengfei Liu. 2025. Researcherbench: Evaluating deep AI research systems on the frontiers of scientific inquiry. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.16280. Xinyi Yan, Cheng hsin Luo, Charles L. A. Clarke, Nick Craswell, Ellen M. Voorhees, and Pablo Castells. 2022. Human preferences as dueling ban-dits. Proceedings of the 45th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval. Dingling Zhang, He Zhu, Jincheng Ren, Kangqi Song, Xinran Zhou, Boyu Feng, Shudong Liu, Jiabin Luo, Weihao Xie, Zhaohui Wang, Tianrui Qin, King Zhu, Yuqing Wang, Qianben Chen, Yuchen Eleanor Jiang, Wei Wang, Jiaheng Liu, and Wangchunshu Zhou. 2025. How far are we from genuinely useful deep research agents? Preprint, arXiv:2512.01948. Yilun Zhao, Kaiyan Zhang, Tiansheng Hu, Sihong Wu, Ronan Le Bras, Taira Anderson, Jonathan Bragg, 

12 Joseph Chee Chang, Jesse Dodge, Matt Latzke, Yixin Liu, C. Mcgrady, Xiangru Tang, Zi-Han Wang, Chen Zhao, Hanna Hajishirzi, Doug Downey, and Arman Cohan. 2025. Sciarena: An open evaluation platform for foundation models in scientific literature tasks. ArXiv, abs/2507.01001. 

A Appendix: Experimental Details 

A.1 Annotation Procedure, Guidelines & Interfaces 

The annotation procedure for 3-way evaluation that include overall preference ranking and metric-wise evaluation is illustrated in Figure 6. The complete set of instructions given to annota-tors this process is found in the project repository. All instructions and human annotation results will be released with the code. 

A.2 Score Conversion & Pairwise Calculation 

As illustrated in Figure 5, we convert expert 3-way rankings into pairwise winner to enable human-model agreement analysis. In the 3-way setting, an expert provides a full ordering over reports A, B, and C, optionally allowing ties based on score thresholds. We use transitivity to decompose each 3-way ranking into the three implied pairwise com-parisons, i.e., (A, B), (B, C), and (A, C), where we can declare pairwise winner (or tie) for each comparison. For model scores, the scalar scores are used to decide the pairwise winner and ties are computed using the tie thresholds (see next section). Finally, agreements are calculated by comparing the two scores. 

A.3 Tie Threshold Calibration 

Because human judgments allow ties, we intro-duce a corresponding tie decision for model out-puts. Model scores are continuous, so we define a tie when the absolute difference between the two scores in a pair falls below a threshold. We select this threshold by matching the overall tie rate in the human data: for each set of data being compared, we choose the threshold that yields a proportion of model ties closest to the observed proportion of human ties. If multiple thresholds achieve the same match, we select the smaller threshold value. 

A.4 Answer Rubric Comparison to Baselines 

We formulate a task that compares our rubrics against baselines to determine how well our auto-mated rubric creation approach (Section 3) holds up against rubrics creation approaches. In particular, we are interested in investigate the comprehensive-ness and utility of our content rubrics. Our rubric creation uses a report-pooling approach to extract-ing and merging ingredients into rubric approach. We compare it against the more common practices of rubric generation: human-written rubrics and 13 vance                

> ll
> ision
> ll
> ABCABBCAC
> BWINS !BWINS !
> TIE BWINS !
> TIE
> 0.72 0.34 0.73 CWINS !
> Calculated using
> tie thresholds (§4.1)
> Score
> Agreement
> Score
> Disagreements
> 3-way comparison Pairwise comparison

Figure 5: Human annotation is conducted as a 3-way comparison. The results are converted into pairwise judgments, and is compared to the model scores for score (dis)agreements. 

generation of rubrics based on LLM’s parametric knowledge. 

Set up. We source questions from the dev set, for which OpenScholar (Asai et al., 2024) provides question-specific, human-developed rubrics, which we use as one of our two baselines. Our second baseline comes from LLM-generated rubrics ob-tained using methods proposed by DeepResearch Bench framework (Du et al., 2025). We follow the procedure described in the near-expert setting (Section 4.2) to have our experts select questions and conduct the preference rank-ing task. At the end of this set up, we introduce an additional step that shows the annotators the three rubrics associated with the question they are eval-uating, and asks them to rank the rubrics on their quality. The quality is defined by by (1) coverage of important content, (2) comprehensiveness of the coverage, and (3) usability of the rubrics based on the judgment task they just completed. All five experts participated in this study with 5 selected questions each, leading each rubric participating in 50 matches. 

Results. The pairwise match results show that our rubric wins 70% of all its matches with 10% ties. The win rate is significantly higher than the LLM rubrics (40%; p=0.000 ) and human-written rubrics (28%; p=0.001 ). 

A.5 Citation Followup Study 

In our metric-wise experiment, we asked experts to select their own claims from the report, specifically focusing on the content most central to the answer to the question. Despite our careful efforts to in-struct our experts on the claim selection to provide us with a comparable context, however, we found that this approach naturally leads to mismatch in claim selection relative to the LLM judge. Thus, we conduct a second set of citation annotations, where we control for selected claim span with the goal of enabling a more direct and methodologi-cally consistent comparison. 

Set up. For this annotation, we recruit 15 re-searchers and scientists with expertise in NLP and AI. These experts were presented with a randomly assigned claim from a generated report given a test set question and their associated citations with ex-cerpts. The researchers were instructed to mark a claim as fully_supported only if every aspect of the claim was entirely supported by the cited sources, and to assess whether each citation in fact supported its associated claim. A skip option was made available for each instance of assessment, in order to provide opportunity to skip content beyond their expertise, but they were specifically instructed to avoid skipping when possible, so as not to bias the annotation to simpler instances (e.g., simpler claims, shorter citation list). Our 15 annotators assessed 80 claims along with their associated citations using this method. Figure 8 is a screenshot of the interface used for assess-ment. 

Results. With stronger alignment between model evaluation set up to human one, we see an even stronger association between model scores and hu-man. Overall, researcher assessments aligned with the LLM evaluator 69% of the time on whether a claim was fully supported and 75% of the time on whether a citation supported a claim. In cases of disagreement, the LLM was typically more lenient than human assessors: 85% of discrepancies arose due to researchers labeling claims as not fully sup-ported while the LLM assessed the claim as fully supported. Experts frequently reported confusion about claims produced by Elicit. After excluding claims from this system, agreement between the LLM and researchers increased to 75% on whether a claim was fully supported and 81% on whether a cita-tion supported its associated claim, indicating that much of the earlier disagreement was driven by unclear or difficult-to-interpret claims rather than a fundamental misalignment between human and automated evaluations. 

A.6 Relevance Adjudication 

To further investigate the role of expertise on hu-man answer relevance, we design a small qualita-tive annotation experiment. 14 For each report and after each paragraph in the report, the annotators are 

asked to assess the relevance of the paragraph (Answer  Relevance) 

After reading a report, they conduct citation validity check 

in an external spreadsheet (Citation  Recall  & Citation 

Precision) 

Annotators read report from Models 1, 2, and 3. 

Then annotators are asked if the report cover all aspects 

of the answer the annotator expected (Answer  Recall) 

⊛ Annotators also assess informativeness, background 

info, organization, and  fl ow of the report. 

Annotators assign 

Gold, Silver, and Bronze medals to rank the 

reports (Overall  Preference  Ranking) Figure 6: Annotation Procedure and Screenshots 

Set up. For this task, we select 10 questions from each setting (near- and deep-expertise set-tings) with the highest disagreement between hu-man overall and model overall scores. We present the reports to the human evaluator with each dis-agreement highlighted. If model reasoning is avail-able for the segment, we include it as well. For each highlighted disagreement, the expert is asked to review the text and adjudicate the disagreement by choosing to "Keep" their own answer, "Switch" 15 Figure 7: rubric comparison 

> Figure 8: The annotation UI used to collect validation data from CS researchers regarding the quality of the citation evaluation quality.

to the model answer (i.e., they are persuaded by model’s reasoning), or deem it a "Subjective" dif-ference. Optionally, they are also asked to provide reasoning behind their choice. The 20 reports con-tain a total of 151 disagreements. 

Results. The results of qualitative evaluation are summarized in Figure 2. Overall, the two settings (near- and deep-expertise settings) show propor-tionally similar levels of instances where the ex-pert chooses to keep their own judgment. The dif-ference lies in how willing experts are to adopt the model’s answer choice or to attribute the dis-agreement as a matter of subjective judgment. Ex-perts tend to defer to the model answer more of-ten in the near-expert setting where the expertise-to-topic alignment is weaker, and model rationale serves to clarify (ir)relevance of fine-grained de-tails. This behavior makes sense: in the near-expert setting, annotators do not necessarily have spe-cific expertise in the task they are evaluating, so changing their minds based on further details is more expected than in the setting with experts have question-specific expertise. The differences be-tween these two settings are statistically significant (t(149)=2.94, p=0.004 ), and supports the earlier finding that for relevance judgment task is highly                                 

> IAA Agree. 2 systems 55.3% 43.4% 3 systems 57.0% 44.6% all 6 systems 55.0% 51.6%
> ,→w/o Elicit 57.0% 58.9%
> Table 6: Comparing most competitive or "best" sys-tems. 3 systems :ScholarQA-CS2 ,ScholarQA-CS2 -SFT, OpenAI-DR; 2systems :ScholarQA-CS2 ,
> ScholarQA-CS2 -SFT.
> IAA Agree. 2 systems 73.1% 83.7% 3 systems 64.1% 71.4% all 6 systems 55.0% 51.6%
> ,→w/o Elicit 57.0% 58.9%
> Table 7: Comparing maximally, quality-wise, distinct systems. 3 systems :ScholarQA-CS2 (high), OpenAI-DR (mid), Perplexity (low); 2 systems :ScholarQA-CS2
> (high), Perplexity (low).

sensitive to evaluators’ specific expertise. 

A.7 Analysis on the Interaction between # Systems in Evaluation vs. Agreement 

In this section, we investigate the impact of the quality and number of system included in human evaluation on IAA and human-model agreement. 

Set up. For this study, we restrict the IAA and agreement comparison to 2 systems and 3 systems in two settings. Using final human evaluation rank-ing (Table 8) as a reference for quality, we select (1) the most competitive or "best" systems, and (2) the most distinct systems. The distinct systems are also represent heterogeneous systems in terms of the system goals and designs. 

Results. Restricting the comparison to best sys-tems (Table 6) lowers the human-model agreement rate and the IAA does not see improvement. In fact, this set up leads to human-agreement rates that are consistently lower than the IAA. The drop more evident if we compare against values that exclude Elicit (the system that sees a systematic human-model disagreement). Restricting compar-ison to the most distinct systems, increases leads to a consistent improvement in both human-model agreement and IAA with a 2-system comparison leading to the highest agreement. 16 B Appendix: Complementary Results               

> Evaluated Systems Expert ScholarQA-CS2 ScholarQA-CS2 11
> ScholarQA-CS2 -SFT 23OpenAI-DR 35STORM 44Elicit 52Perplexity 66

Table 8: Final rankings based on human overall prefer-ence ratings for the full dataset. 

Figure 9: Analysis of qualitative assessments shows that each annotator calibrates what constitutes a good answer differently. 

Figure 10: Cross-correlation heatmap for Pearson ρ

coefficient. Cross-correlation analysis indicates that all models are highly correlated with one another, and that our findings are robust across evaluator choice. 

17 Human Meta-Evaluation (Expert Agreement w/ LLM-judge) Evaluation Dom Input Source Ext. Src Metrics Used 

Expert Eval PPR Metric -Wise Reported Comp. Qs Assign # Sys Comp. IAA OA 

ScholarQA-CS2 

(Bragg et al., 2025) + present study Sci:CS real user queries 

PI AR,RCC, CP,CR 

✓ ✓ ✓✓ SC,IC, OA,MA, MC R,C,A 6 55.0% 51.6% OpenScholar (Asai et al., 2024) Sci written queries 

PI RCC,CP, CR,AQ 

✓ ✓ ✓* OA R 3 68% 50% Deep Research Bench (Bosse et al., 2025) Gen synthetic queries 

WS RC,CP - - - - -DeepResearchGym (Coelho et al., 2025) Gen real user queries 

WI FC,AQ, CP,CR 

✓ ✓ ✓* SC,OA R 7 0.87 

Cohen κ

0.72 

Cohen κ

DeepResearch Bench (Du et al., 2025) Gen curated queries 

WS RC,CP, CR 

✓ ✓ - SC,OA R 4 68.4% 71.3% 

DeepResearch-ReportEval 

(Fan et al., 2025) Gen curated queries 

GT, WS FC,AQ ✓ ✓ - OA R 4 - 61.1% LiveDRBench (Java et al., 2025) Sci synthetic queries 

WS CP,CR - - - - -ReportBench (Li et al., 2025a) Gen synthetic queries 

GT FC,CP, CR 

- - - - -ResearchQA (Li et al., 2025b) Gen synthetic queries 

WS RCC,CR ✓ ✓ ✓ OA,MA R 3 84% 75% 

DeepResearch Bench II 

(Li et al., 2026) Gen curated tasks 

WS RC,CP, CR 

✓ - ✓* OA R

DeepScholar-Bench (Patel et al., 2025) Gen extracted abstracts 

GT, WS FC,CP, CR 

✓ - ✓* OA R

Trec Rag 2024 (Pradeep et al., 2025a) Gen written topics 

GT FC ✓ - ✓ SC,MC R

ResearchRubrics (Sharma et al., 2025) Sci written queries 

WS RC - - - - -DeepResearchEval (Wang et al., 2026) Gen synthetic tasks 

WS FC,RC, CP 

✓ - ✓* OA R

LiveResearchBench (Wang et al., 2025) Gen written queries 

WS RC,CP, CR 

- - - - -ResearcherBench (Xu et al., 2025) Sci:AI synthetic queries 

WS RCC,CP, CR 

✓ - ✓* OA R

FINDER (Zhang et al., 2025) Gen curated queries 

WS RC,CP, CR 

✓ - ✓ MA,OA R              

> COLUMNS: Input Source: Sources of input (e.g., queries, topics) in the benchmark. "Curated" and "written" queries stand in for to "expert-curated" and "expert-written", respectively.
> Expert Eval: Does the evaluation use comparison to expert human annotation?; PPR: Pairwise preference ranking used for meta-evaluation;
> Last 3 columns: For papers evaluating on pairwise-preference ranking (PPR) only, how many report-generating systems are compared ( # Sys Comp. ), what is their reported inter-annotator agreement ( IAA ), and what is their reported human-model overall agreement ( OA )?
> ABBREVS: External Sources: {PI: Paper index, WI: Webpage index, WS: Web Search, GT: Groundtruth docs};
> Metrics Used :{FC: Fact Check, RC: Rubric Coverage, RCC: Rubric Coverage restricted to content, CP: Citation Precision, CR: Citation Recall, AQ: Answer Quality};
> Metric-wise Meta Evaluation: human eval specifically designed for { ✓✓ : all metrics ✓: a subset of metrics, ✓*: a subset of metrics, only overall score reported};
> Reported Comparisons: {SC: system correlation, IC: instance correlation, OA: overall agreement, MA: metric-wise agreement, MC: metric-wise correlation};
> Qs Assigned: {R: randomly assigned Qs, C: expert chosen Qs, A: expert authored Qs}

Table 9: Related Deep Research Evaluation Literature. Ordered alphabetically by author. 

18