Title: Structural Hallucination in Large Language Models: A Network-Based Evaluation of Knowledge Organization and Citation Integrity

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.01341v1

Published Time: Tue, 03 Mar 2026 03:09:47 GMT

Number of Pages: 47

Markdown Content:
# Structural Hallucination in Large Language Models: A Network-Based Evaluation of Knowledge Organization and Citation Integrity 

# Moses Boudourides School of Professional Studies, Northwestern University 

Moses.Boudourides@northwestern.edu 

Abstract 

Large Language Models (LLMs) increasingly mediate access to scholarly information, yet their outputs are typically evaluated at the level of individual statements rather than knowledge structure. This paper introduces structural hallucination : systematic distortion of conceptual organization, relational architecture, and bibliographic grounding that remains invisible to sentence-level accuracy metrics. To detect such distortions, we develop a network-based hallucination stress test grounded in knowledge graph extraction, graph similarity analysis, centrality comparison, and citation integrity verification. The protocol is applied to three structured domains representing core forms of scholarly knowledge: Roget’s Thesaurus (1911) as a lexical ontology; Wikidata philosophers as a bio-graphical knowledge graph; and bibliographic citation records retrieved from the Dimensions.ai database. Across all domains, substantial structural divergence is observed. In the lexical benchmark, macro-averaged F1 scores fall below 0.05; in the biographical benchmark, hal-lucination rates exceed 93%; and in the bibliometric benchmark, citation omission reaches 91.9%. Network-level comparison in the Roget reconstruction further reveals node-set Jaccard similarity of 0.028 and fabrication rates above 94%. These findings show that structural fidelity cannot be inferred from local fluency alone. The proposed stress test provides a reproducible instrument for evaluating the structural integrity of LLM-generated knowledge representations within knowledge organization and information quality research. 

Keywords: large language models; structural hallucination; knowledge organization; knowledge graphs; network analysis; information quality; bibliometrics; citation analysis 1

> arXiv:2603.01341v1 [cs.SI] 2 Mar 2026

# 1 Introduction 

Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly embedded in workflows that mediate access to scholarly information. They are used to summarise literature, reconstruct conceptual taxonomies, generate biographical data, and compile bibliographies. Yet evaluation of these systems remains largely confined to sentence-level accuracy and semantic plausibility. For domains in which knowledge is organized relationally — through ontologies, authority records, and citation structures — such evaluation is insufficient. The central question is therefore not whether LLM outputs are locally fluent, but whether they preserve the structural integrity of the knowledge systems they approximate. This paper addresses that question by combining conceptual analysis with systematic empirical testing. We argue that the most consequential failures of LLMs in scholarly contexts are not isolated factual errors but structural hallucinations : distortions of conceptual organization, relational architecture, and bibliographic grounding that remain invisible to local (sentence-level) evaluation. A model may reproduce the surface form of an ontology or a network while substantially altering its node composition, edge structure, and centrality distribution. Such divergence cannot be detected through conventional fact-checking alone. To examine this phenomenon, we introduce a network-based hallucination stress test grounded in knowledge graph extraction, graph similarity analysis, and centrality diagnostics. Rather than treating LLM reliability as a matter of ethical compliance or stylistic correctness, we operationalise it as a problem of structural comparability between LLM-generated representations and authoritative ground-truth knowledge systems. Empirically, the paper applies this protocol to three domains representing core forms of scholarly knowledge: lexical ontology (Roget’s Thesaurus , 1911 edition), biographical authority data (Wikidata philosophers), and bibliometric studies (citattions retrieved from Dimensions.ai). For each benchmark, we employ a multi-layered evaluation pipeline combining classical information-retrieval metrics (precision, recall, F1), semantic similarity analysis, machine-learning hallucination classification, and network-level comparison of knowledge graphs constructed from both ground-truth and LLM-generated data. Across all three domains, substantial structural divergence is observed, including extreme node and edge-set mismatch and large-scale citation omission. The paper makes three contributions. First, it provides a formal definition and typology of structural hallucination, distinguishing it from intrinsic and extrinsic hallucination categories in the existing literature (Huang et al., 2025; Ji et al., 2023). Second, it introduces a reproducible network-analytic stress test for evaluating structural fidelity in LLM-generated knowledge representations, drawing on knowledge organization theory (Hjørland, 2003; Zeng, 2008) and network science 2(Barabási, 2016; Newman, 2010). Third, it offers a systematic multi-domain empirical assessment demonstrating that structural failures are detectable at the graph level even when local semantic plausibility is preserved. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 examines the limitations of fluency-based evaluation. Section 3 defines structural hallucination and identifies its principal mech-anisms: conceptual re-centering, bibliographic distortion, and logical mis-structuring. Section 4 reframes LLM governance as methodological validation. Section 5 develops the knowledge-graph-based stress test protocol. Section 6 focuses on citation integrity as a bibliometric case. Section 7 outlines implications for scholarly practice. Section 8 presents the empirical study. Section 9 interprets the findings in relation to information quality and knowledge organization. Section 10 concludes. 

# 2 The Epistemic Problem of Fluency, Error, and Accuracy 

# 2.1 The Epistemic Stakes of Fluency 

The integration of LLMs into academic workflows now spans literature review, hypothesis formation, manuscript drafting, and student assessment (Bommasani et al., 2021; Lund et al., 2023; van Dis et al., 2023). The epistemic significance of this transformation lies not in the scale of adoption but in a distinctive property of LLM output: the decoupling of linguistic fluency from epistemic reliability .LLMs optimise next-token prediction within the statistical distribution of their training data (Bender et al., 2021; Bommasani et al., 2021). They are designed to produce plausible continuations, not to retrieve verified knowledge. As a result, outputs may be grammatically correct, stylistically appropriate, and superficially coherent while remaining factually, contextually or relationally incorrect. In academic discourse, where the validity of a claim depends on the precise organization of concepts and references, such plausibility can mask substantive distortion. Bender et al. (2021) describe this as a mismatch between linguistic form and grounded meaning. Language models manipulate token sequences without direct access to the entities and relations those tokens denote. In scholarly settings, such a limitation extends beyond isolated factual mistakes to the misrepresentation of conceptual and bibliographic structure. 32.2 Hallucination as the Empirical Signature of Fluency Failure 

A well-documented manifestation of this limitation is hallucination : the generation of fabricated yet fluent statements (Huang et al., 2025; Ji et al., 2023; Tonmoy et al., 2024). Hallucinations occur across domains and model scales, and they are rarely self-signalled (Huang et al., 2025; Ji et al., 2023). Incorrect DOIs, fabricated biographical details, and invented citations may appear with the same stylistic authority as accurate information (Alkaissi and McFarlane, 2023; Weidinger et al., 2021). Existing taxonomies distinguish intrinsic and extrinsic hallucinations through categories focusing primarily on proposition-level falsehood (Ji et al., 2023). The present paper extends the analysis to failures that operate at the level of relational organization. 

# 2.3 Sentence-Level Accuracy and Structural Integrity 

We distinguish between sentence-level accuracy and structural integrity . Sentence-level accuracy concerns the truth of individual statements. Structural integrity concerns whether the relational architecture of a domain is faithfully represented. A text may contain individually correct statements while misrepresenting intellectual depen-dencies, citation patterns, or conceptual hierarchies. Such distortions are not detectable through isolated fact verification. They require evaluation of the global organization of the knowledge represented (Pan et al., 2024; Sansford et al., 2024). Standard LLM benchmarks emphasise question-answering accuracy and factual recall (Chen et al., 2023; Tonmoy et al., 2024). They do not assess whether a model preserves the structure of an ontology, authority file, or citation records when generating extended academic text. This methodological gap motivates the framework developed in the present paper. The distinction parallels that between propositional knowledge and structural knowledge (Bommasani et al., 2021; Wang et al., 2023). Scholarly expertise depends on the ability to situate claims within relational frameworks. Unlike isolated inaccuracies, structural distortion alters the underlying architecture of knowledge and thus presents a different order of risk. 

# 2.4 Limits of Fact-Checking 

Fact-checking addresses sentence-level correctness but leaves structural organization unexam-ined. Verifying individual claims in an LLM-generated text does not guarantee that the resulting 4representation preserves the intellectual or bibliographic structure of a field. Structural distortions are properties of relational configuration rather than of isolated state-ments. To detect them we are proposing here methods that extract and compare knowledge graphs from generated text against authoritative ground-truth representations. The taxonomy of structural failure modes that such methods must address is developed in the following section. 

# 3 Structural Hallucination: Definition and Mechanisms 

# 3.1 Defining Structural Hallucination 

In natural language generation, hallucination is typically defined as output that is unfaithful to a source document or unsupported by input context (Ji et al., 2023; Maynez et al., 2020). For open-ended LLM generation, the term has been extended to encompass plausible yet factually unsupported content (Alkaissi and McFarlane, 2023; Huang et al., 2025; Rawte et al., 2023). While necessary, these definitions primarily address failures at the level of individual statements. We introduce the concept of structural hallucination to capture a distinct failure mode. Structural hallucination occurs when an LLM-generated text may contain individually plausible or even factually correct statements, yet collectively misrepresents the relational architecture of a knowledge domain. The distortion lies not in isolated falsehoods but in the configuration of relations—conceptual dependencies, intellectual genealogies, citation networks, or argumentative hierarchies—that the text constructs or implies. Such distortions are not detectable through sentence-level verification alone. This category extends the intrinsic/extrinsic distinction introduced in the summarisation literature (Maynez et al., 2020). Intrinsic hallucination contradicts a source; extrinsic hallucination introduces unsupported content. Structural hallucination, by contrast, concerns misrepresentation at the level of the implicitly encoded knowledge structure. It may coexist with locally correct statements while altering entity composition, relational structure or salience. Academic knowledge is inherently relational and hierarchical (Chen et al., 2023). The significance of a claim depends on its position within an organized network of concepts, methods, and references. Structural hallucination therefore represents a qualitatively different failure from isolated factual error: it affects how knowledge is organized rather than whether a single statement is true. 53.2 Mechanisms of Structural Hallucination 

Structural hallucination manifests through three recurrent mechanisms. 

3.2.1 Conceptual Re-Centering 

Conceptual re-centering occurs when peripheral or statistically salient concepts are presented as central to a field. LLMs learn associations through co-occurrence patterns rather than epistemic weighting (Bender et al., 2021; Bommasani et al., 2021). As a result, concepts that are prominent in popular or frequently repeated contexts may be assigned disproportionate importance in generated outputs. Network-level comparison can reveal such re-centering by examining shifts in centrality or community structure relative to authoritative representations. 

3.2.2 Bibliographic Distortion 

Bibliographic distortion refers to fabricated citations, incorrect attributions, or misleading compres-sion of intellectual genealogies. Fabricated references generated with correct stylistic formatting have been documented empirically (Alkaissi and McFarlane, 2023; Orduña-Malea and Cabezas-Clavijo, 2023). Beyond outright fabrication, distortion may also occur through selective citation that alters the apparent structure of influence and epistemic prestige within a field. Because citation records constitute a primary infrastructure for organizing scholarly knowledge, distortion at this level affects more than individual claims; it alters the relational record itself. 

3.2.3 Logical Mis-Structuring 

Logical mis-structuring occurs when argumentative relations are incorrectly configured despite local coherence. For example, a model may accurately describe two publications yet imply a direct intellectual response or dependency that did not occur. Each statement may be individually correct, but the constructed relation between them is not. Such errors are detectable only when the inferred relational structure is compared against established knowledge representations (Rawte et al., 2023). 

# 3.3 The Structural Hallucination Criterion 

The previous mechanisms interact. Conceptual re-centering may influence citation selection, which in turn shapes argumentative structure. The result can be a text that is internally consistent yet structurally divergent from the underlying knowledge domain. 6The evaluative question is therefore structural: does an LLM-generated text preserve the relational configuration of the domain it represents? Answering this question requires methods that extract and compare knowledge graphs from generated text against authoritative ground-truth systems. The following sections develop such a methodology using network-analytic techniques. 

# 4 Governance as Methodological Infrastructure 

# 4.1 From Normative Governance to Methodological Validation 

In discussions of artificial intelligence, the term governance is often framed in ethical, normative or policy-oriented terms (Lindebaum et al., 2025; Papagiannidis et al., 2025). In the context of scholarly work, however, the primary question is methodological: how can the structural reliability of LLM-generated content be evaluated in a reproducible manner? We use the term governance in a restricted, operational, methodological sense. Governance refers here to a structured validation scrutiny that renders LLM outputs inspectable and comparable against authoritative knowledge systems. Rather than focusing on disclosure or oversight in the abstract, this conception emphasises diagnostic procedures that produce measurable indicators of structural fidelity. Such a reframing aligns with the methodological tradition of information science, where citation analysis, bibliometric mapping, and knowledge graph construction are standard tools for analysing the organization of knowledge. The framework proposed in this paper applies that repertoire to the evaluation of LLM-generated scholarly representations. 

# 4.2 Validation Components 

The proposed validation workflow consists of three components. 

Knowledge graph extraction and comparison. Entities and relations implied in LLM-generated text are extracted and represented as a graph. This graph is compared against a ground-truth knowledge graph derived from curated databases or established bibliometric sources. Discrepancies in node presence, edge configuration, and relational direction constitute measurable indicators of structural divergence. 7Network-analytic diagnostics. Once graphs are constructed, standard graph measures—degree centrality, betweenness centrality, modularity, and community structure—are computed for both the generated and ground-truth graphs. Quantitative comparison of these measures allows identification of conceptual re-centering, anomalous community formation, or other forms of relational distortion. 

Citation integrity verification. Generated references are validated against authoritative biblio-graphic databases to confirm existence and metadata accuracy. Beyond individual verification, the structure of the generated bibliography is assessed for omission, selective emphasis, or relational distortion relative to the established scholarly record (Alkaissi and McFarlane, 2023; Orduña-Malea and Cabezas-Clavijo, 2023). Together, these components transform structural evaluation from a qualitative judgment into a reproducible analytic procedure. 

# 4.3 Methodological Architecture 

The three components operate at complementary levels. Citation verification addresses bibliographic correctness at the reference level. Knowledge graph comparison evaluates relational configuration. Network diagnostics provide quantitative summaries of structural properties that can be compared across models, prompts, and domains. Each step produces interpretable outputs—missing nodes/entities, spurious edges/relationships, centrality shifts, citation omission rates—that can be reported alongside other procedural parameters. In this sense, methodological governance is understood as an extension of established validation practice to a new class of generative tools. The empirical benchmarks presented in subsequent sections instantiate this architecture across lexical, biographical, and bibliometric domains, demonstrating how structural validation can be operationalised in practice. The applied dimension of this governance framework—its operationalisation in academic assessment, manuscript writing, and syllabus design—is examined in Section 7. 85 Knowledge Graphs and Network-Analytic Governance 

# 5.1 Knowledge Graphs as Knowledge organization Systems 

From an information science perspective, a knowledge graph is a computational instantiation of a knowledge organization system (KOS): a structured representation of concepts, entities, and their relations within a domain (Hjørland, 2003, 2021; Zeng, 2008). Knowledge organization research has long addressed the faithful representation of domain structure for purposes of retrieval, reasoning, and communication. A knowledge graph renders such structure as a labelled (directed or undirected) network in which nodes represent entities or concepts and edges represent typed relations (Hogan et al., 2021). The framework developed here treats knowledge graph construction as the primary instru-ment for evaluating structural fidelity. Sentence-level verification addresses the truth of individual claims; graph-level comparison addresses whether the relational architecture of the generated text matches that of an authoritative domain representation (Arazy and Kopak, 2011; Stvilia et al., 2007). This shift situates LLM evaluation within established information quality dimensions—accuracy, completeness, and consistency—applied to relational structure rather than isolated records. This alignment can be made explicit by mapping the structural hallucination metrics intro-duced in this study onto established Information Quality (IQ) dimensions. Within widely used IQ frameworks, accuracy refers to the degree to which data correctly represent the real-world entities they describe; completeness refers to the extent to which all necessary data are present; consistency concerns the absence of internal contradiction across representations; and relevance addresses fitness for intended use (Lee et al., 2002; Pipino et al., 2002; Strong et al., 1997; Wang and Strong, 1996). Under this mapping, the fabrication rate directly operationalises relational accuracy: nodes present in the generated graph but absent from the authoritative reference graph represent inaccu-rate entity-level assertions. Similarly, incorrect DOI generation and spurious biographical fields constitute violations of attribute accuracy. In contrast, the citation omission rate observed in the bibliographic benchmark operationalises structural completeness: missing citations in the bibliogra-phy indicate incomplete representation of the domain’s intellectual structure. When over 90% of canonical citation links are absent, the resulting graph fails the completeness criterion at a systemic level. The centrality rank correlation and upward mobility diagnostics extend the IQ notion of consistency to relational architecture. If canonical nodes in the reference graph lose centrality while fabricated nodes acquire structural influence, the generated representation becomes architecturally 9inconsistent with the authoritative domain model. This form of inconsistency is not record-level contradiction but topology-level distortion. Finally, modularity comparison and graph similarity indices speak to representational coherence and contextual integrity, dimensions frequently associated with intrinsic and contextual data quality in the IQ literature (Arazy and Kopak, 2011; Stvilia et al., 2007). A graph may appear semantically plausible at the local level while failing intrinsic IQ criteria when evaluated against an external structural benchmark. By situating fabrication detection, citation omission, and centrality divergence within formal IQ dimensions—accuracy, completeness, and consistency—the framework integrates structural hallucination into established information quality theory. The contribution is therefore not merely diagnostic but conceptual: it extends IQ assessment from attribute-level metadata to network-level epistemic architecture. This structural perspective has direct implications for the epistemic reliability of digital libraries and automated indexing systems. Contemporary discovery platforms increasingly incorpo-rate knowledge graph enrichment, automated subject assignment, entity linking, and LLM-assisted metadata generation to support search, recommendation, and semantic navigation. If LLM-generated structures exhibit the kinds of relational divergence documented in the empirical benchmarks be-low—fabricated entities, distorted centrality hierarchies, and omission of canonical nodes—then these distortions can propagate into indexing layers, recommender systems, and cross-database linkage infrastructures. The result is not merely local metadata error but a systematic weakening of retrieval precision, citation tracing, and domain representation within digital knowledge environ-ments. From an information quality standpoint (Lee et al., 2002; Wang and Strong, 1996), such structural deviations threaten the reliability of authority control, subject consistency, and semantic interoperability across library and bibliographic systems (Borgman, 1999; Tennis, 2012). In this sense, structural hallucination is not confined to individual documents; it poses a systemic risk to the epistemic infrastructure upon which digital libraries depend. 

# 5.2 From Text to Network: Extraction and Comparison 

Structural evaluation begins by translating unstructured academic text into an explicit graph repre-sentation. 

Concept and relation extraction. Concepts and relations are identified using standard NLP techniques such as dependency parsing, co-occurrence analysis, or semantic similarity-based 10 linking. The resulting graph encodes the conceptual architecture implicit in the text. For governance purposes, dependency-based and co-occurrence extraction are sufficient to capture domain-level structure. 

Bibliometric network construction. Bibliographic content is used to construct citation or co-authorship networks representing the intellectual context of the text. These networks are directly comparable to reference structures derived from bibliometric databases or curated corpora (Jaradeh et al., 2019). 

Comparative analysis. The LLM-derived graph is compared against a reference graph constructed from authoritative sources. Structural divergence—missing nodes, spurious edges, inverted relations, or altered community structure—constitutes the operational signature of structural hallucination. 

# 5.3 Network-Analytic Diagnostics 

Once graphs are constructed, standard network measures are computed for both generated and reference graphs (Barabási, 2016; Newman, 2010; Paulheim, 2017). 

Centrality. Degree, betweenness, eigenvector centrality, and PageRank identify structurally important nodes (Bonacich, 1987; Freeman, 1977; Page et al., 1999). Rank correlation between centrality scores in generated and reference graphs provides a quantitative measure of conceptual re-centering. 

Modularity and communities. Modularity and community detection (e.g., the Louvain algorithm) (Blondel et al., 2008; Newman and Girvan, 2004) assess whether thematic clusters in the generated graph correspond to recognised domain substructures. Divergence in community composition signals structural reorganization. 

Graph similarity. Set-based measures such as Jaccard similarity quantify overlap between node and edge sets. Low similarity indicates large-scale structural divergence. 

# 5.4 The Hallucination Stress Test Protocol 

The hallucination stress test operationalises structural evaluation through three sequential steps. 11 Step 1: Fabrication detection. Nodes present in the LLM-generated graph but absent from the reference graph are flagged as fabrications. The proportion of such nodes constitutes the LLM fabrication rate. 

Step 2: Centrality comparison. For shared nodes, centrality rank correlation is computed across multiple measures. Low correlation indicates conceptual re-centering. 

Step 3: Upward mobility analysis. Nodes whose centrality rank increases substantially in the LLM-generated graph relative to the reference graph are identified as upwardly mobile. When such nodes are also fabrications, they represent severe structural divergence. Together, these steps produce a multi-level diagnostic profile of structural fidelity. The resulting metrics—fabrication rate, centrality rank correlation, modularity comparison, and graph similarity—are quantitative, reproducible, and interpretable within established information quality frameworks. Unlike standard NLP evaluation metrics such as BLEU or ROUGE—which can measure surface-level n-gram overlap between generated and reference text (Lin, 2004; Papineni et al., 2002)—the hallucination stress test operates at the level of relational structure. BLEU and ROUGE were designed for machine translation and summarization tasks where lexical similarity approxi-mates semantic adequacy. However, they are insensitive to network topology, hierarchical reorgani-zation, and citation omission: a generated text can achieve moderate lexical overlap while radically altering the centrality structure or omitting key relational edges. By contrast, centrality rank correla-tion evaluates whether the relative structural importance of entities is preserved, and modularity comparison assesses whether community structure is maintained across graphs (Blondel et al., 2008; Newman, 2010). These diagnostics capture topology-level divergence that lexical metrics cannot detect. From an information science perspective, where knowledge organization depends on the faithful preservation of relational architecture rather than textual similarity alone, network-analytic measures provide a more appropriate and theoretically grounded evaluation framework. 

Practitioner’s Checklist: Implementing the Hallucination Stress Test 

For information scientists, the stress test can be implemented as a structured validation workflow integrated into cataloguing, metadata generation, or knowledge graph enrichment pipelines. The following checklist summarises the procedure in operational terms: 1. Define authoritative reference graph. Select a trusted knowledge organization system 12 (controlled vocabulary, curated ontology, bibliometric database, or institutional knowledge graph) representing the target domain. 2. Extract LLM-generated graph. Parse the LLM-generated output to identify entities (nodes) and typed relations (edges), and construct a directed graph representation. 3. Compute fabrication rate. Compare node sets. Fabrication rate = |VLLM \Vref ||VLLM | , where 

VLLM , Vref denote the sets of nodes of the LLM-generated graph and the reference graph, respectively. 4. Compute structural alignment metrics. For shared nodes: • Compute centrality measures (degree, betweenness, PageRank). • Compute Spearman rank correlation between LLM and reference ranks. 5. Assess community structure. Apply community detection (e.g., Louvain) to both graphs. Compare modularity and community composition. 6. Identify upward mobility. Flag nodes with significant positive rank shift. Prioritise fabricated nodes with high centrality as high-risk distortions. 7. Report diagnostic profile. Document: • Fabrication rate • Rank correlations • Modularity comparison • Node/edge Jaccard similarity Interpret results within information quality dimensions (accuracy, completeness, consistency). 

Pseudocode Summary 

INPUT: Generated graph G_llm, Reference graph G_ref V_llm = nodes(G_llm) V_ref = nodes(G_ref) fabrication_rate = |V_llm - V_ref| / |V_llm| 

13 V_shared = intersection(V_llm, V_ref) for centrality in {degree, betweenness, pagerank}: rank_llm = centrality(G_llm, V_shared) rank_ref = centrality(G_ref, V_shared) rho = spearman(rank_llm, rank_ref) modularity_llm = louvain(G_llm) modularity_ref = louvain(G_ref) upward_nodes = {v in V_shared : rank_llm(v) >> rank_ref(v)} OUTPUT: fabrication_rate rank_correlations modularity_comparison upward_nodes 

This operational summary translates the governance framework into a reproducible valida-tion instrument suitable for integration into digital library workflows, automated indexing systems, and metadata quality audits. 

# 6 Citation Integrity and Bibliometric Grounding 

Citation integrity constitutes the bibliographic component of structural evaluation. If knowledge graphs capture conceptual organization, citation networks capture intellectual lineage and evidential grounding. Structural hallucination at the bibliographic level manifests as fabricated references, misattribution, selective omission, or distorted citation patterns. 

# 6.1 Citation Validation 

The first step is systematic verification of all references generated or recommended by an LLM. Each citation is checked against authoritative bibliographic databases (e.g., Web of Science, Scopus, 14 Dimensions, OpenAlex, etc.) to confirm existence and metadata accuracy. This establishes a minimal baseline for bibliographic reliability. Empirical studies have documented fabricated references and incorrect metadata in LLM-generated outputs (Alkaissi and McFarlane, 2023; Orduña-Malea and Cabezas-Clavijo, 2023). Beyond existence checks, validation must also assess contextual relevance: whether the cited work substantively supports the claim for which it is invoked. Existence verification can be automated; contextual relevance requires expert review. 

# 6.2 Bibliometric Benchmarking 

Beyond individual validation, structural assessment operates at the network level. The citation graph (or any other type of bibliometric graph) induced by LLM-generated text is compared against reference citation networks derived from bibliometric databases. Comparison may be conducted at multiple levels: 

Node level: identification of missing canonical works or overrepresentation of peripheral sources. 

Edge level: examination of citation neighbourhoods to assess whether cited works are situated within coherent intellectual communities. 

Network level: comparison of degree distributions, clustering coefficients, centrality profiles, and community structure of the citation graph, using the same network-analytic instruments described in Section 5. Systematic divergence between LLM-generated and reference citation networks constitutes bibliometric structural hallucination: a misrepresentation of the empirical structure of scholarly communication. 

# 6.3 Author and Venue Distribution 

Additional diagnostics examine the distribution of cited authors and publication venues. Dis-proportionate concentration on a limited set of authors, neglect of foundational contributions, or systematic bias in venue representation may signal distortion in how the model approximates the field’s structure. 15 These distributional analyses situate LLM-generated citation behaviour within established bibliometric baselines, enabling evaluation of representational balance rather than merely factual correctness. 

# 6.4 Interpretive Implication 

Citation validation and bibliometric benchmarking complement the knowledge-graph diagnostics de-veloped earlier. Together, they ensure that LLM-generated scholarly representations are assessed not only for local accuracy but also for structural alignment with the empirically observed organization of a field. The empirical benchmarks presented later in the paper operationalise these procedures and quantify the degree of citation (or co-authorship etc.) omission, fabrication, and network divergence observed in practice. The magnitude of citation omission documented in the empirical benchmarks in Section 9, where the 91.9% omission rate is situated within the broader sociology of scientific citation, invites a stronger interpretive claim. From the perspective of the sociology of science and scholarly communication (Garfield, 1955; Merton, 1973), such divergence disrupts mechanisms of recognition, influence tracing, and cumulative knowledge formation. The issue is therefore not solely one of data quality but of epistemic continuity: the structural omission of citations attenuates the visible chains of intellectual descent that underwrite disciplinary coherence. 

# 7 Applications: Assessment, Manuscript Writing, and Syllabus Design 

The structural validation framework developed in the preceding sections extends beyond model benchmarking to broader scholarly practice. Its core contribution is to reorient evaluation from surface fluency to relational and bibliometric integrity. 

# 7.1 Assessment Contexts 

In educational settings, structural diagnostics can be used to evaluate whether submitted work—re-gardless of how it was produced—accurately reflects the conceptual and bibliographic organization of a field. Knowledge graph comparison and citation validation make it possible to assess represen-tational alignment rather than stylistic polish alone. 16 7.2 Manuscript Development 

In research writing, the framework enables systematic verification of literature reviews and concep-tual sections. By translating both draft text and trusted reference corpora into comparable knowledge and bibliometric networks, authors can detect omitted foundational work, distorted patterns of influence, or conceptual re-centering that would not be visible through sentence-level review (Chen et al., 2023). 

# 7.3 Curricular Design 

When applied to course design, structural comparison can reveal gaps, imbalances, or overcon-centration in LLM-generated output, such as reading lists and topic sequences. Modelling syllabi as knowledge and citation (or any type of bibliometric co-occurrent) networks provides a formal means of evaluating thematic coverage and disciplinary coherence. Across these domains, the framework functions as a general method for assessing structural fidelity in scholarly representations, independent of whether LLMs are involved in their production. 

# 7.4 Ethical Stakes: Intellectual Visibility and Epistemic Equity 

The empirical findings presented earlier introduce ethical considerations that extend beyond tech-nical reliability. If LLMs are used as instruments for literature review or field mapping while omitting large portions of canonical or specialized work—as observed in the citation reconstruction benchmark—the result is not merely incomplete scholarship but systematic distortion of intellectual visibility. Digital libraries and indexing systems traditionally function as epistemic infrastructure: they structure what is discoverable and therefore what becomes citable, teachable, and institutionally recognized (Garfield, 1955; Hjørland, 2003). When LLM-generated reviews omit substantial portions of the cited literature, they risk creating algorithmically mediated intellectual silos. Entire research traditions may be rendered invisible if they are underrepresented in training data or structurally difficult to reconstruct from parametric memory. This concern aligns with longstanding work in social informatics on the interaction between technological systems and scholarly communities (Kling, 2000). Knowledge organization research has shown that classification and indexing practices are never neutral; they shape the distribution of attention and authority within a field (Bowker and Star, 1999; Olson, 2002). If LLM-assisted literature reviews systematically privilege well-represented or contemporary material while omitting 17 peripheral, minority, or historically distant scholarship, the resulting distortions may reinforce existing epistemic inequalities. From an information quality perspective, such omissions constitute a failure of completeness and representational fairness (Wang and Strong, 1996). The ethical stakes are therefore structural rather than stylistic: an LLM that produces fluent summaries while omitting large segments of the existing bibliography risks narrowing scholarly discourse and amplifying dominant narratives at the expense of marginalized voices. The 91.9% citation omission rate observed in the bibliographic benchmark has implications that extend beyond incomplete retrieval. The cited literature encodes what may be termed the 

intellectual lineage of a research topic: the historical sequence of theoretical foundations, method-ological innovations, and canonical debates that situate current work within a continuing scholarly conversation (Garfield, 1955; Merton, 1973). When an LLM-generated literature review omits the majority of these links, it does not merely exclude individual papers; it disrupts the visible chain of intellectual descent. The resulting representation presents research as context-free or ahistorical, effectively attenuating or erasing the foundational structures upon which contemporary scholarship depends. In fields where recognition, citation, and theoretical continuity are central to disciplinary identity, such structural omission risks fragmenting collective memory and weakening the traceability of scholarly influence. The methodological governance framework proposed in this paper directly addresses these risks. By requiring explicit citation-network reconstruction, fabrication detection, and structural comparison against authoritative corpora, the hallucination stress test functions not only as a methodological safeguard but as an instrument of epistemic accountability. In this sense, structural validation is also a form of social responsibility within digital knowledge infrastructures. 

# 8 Empirical Benchmarks: Three Stress Tests of Structural Hal-lucination 

The comparative framework developed in Sections 4 through 7 calls for the systematic, network-analytic evaluation of LLM outputs against authoritative external reference structures. This section operationalises that framework through three benchmark experiments, each targeting a distinct domain of scholarly knowledge organization: lexical structure (Roget’s Thesaurus), biographical knowledge (Wikidata Philosophers), and bibliographic citation records (retrieved from research data platforms as Dimensions.ai). Together, they constitute a multi-domain empirical stress test of 18 the structural hallucination hypothesis advanced in Section 3. 

# Shared Evaluation Pipeline 

All three benchmarks share a common three-stage evaluation pipeline. 

Stage 1: Data Acquisition. For each benchmark, a ground-truth dataset is constructed from an authoritative structured source (Roget’s Thesaurus, Wikidata, research data platforms such as Dimensions.ai). A sample of entries is drawn, and the LLM ( gpt-4.1-mini ) is queried to reconstruct the structured fields of each entry from memory. LLM responses are constrained to JSON format with a maximum of 1,024 tokens and parsed into structured records matching the ground-truth schema. All LLM calls use exponential backoff retry logic (delays of 1, 2, 4, 8 seconds) and are cached to disk after the first successful call to ensure reproducibility. 

Stage 2: Classical Evaluation. Each LLM-generated field value is compared against the ground-truth value using a fuzzy string matching procedure based on the token-set ratio (threshold ≥ 80 ,implemented via the rapidfuzz library). A third-party oracle (DBpedia (Auer et al., 2007)) is used to distinguish genuine extra knowledge (false positives confirmed by DBpedia) from hallucinations (false positives absent from both the ground truth and DBpedia). Precision, recall, F1, and accuracy are computed per field. 

Stage 3: ML-Enhanced Evaluation. Two machine learning techniques are applied. Semantic similarity scoring uses the pre-trained sentence transformer all-MiniLM-L6-v2 (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) to compute the cosine similarity between the ground-truth and LLM field values. This model maps sentences to a 384-dimensional dense vector space optimised for semantic textual similarity. Cosine similarity is computed as: 

sim( a, b) = a · b

|a|| b|, (1) where a and b are the sentence embeddings of the ground-truth and LLM field values respectively. A score of 1.0 indicates identical semantic content; 0.0 indicates orthogonality. 

Hallucination classification trains a logistic regression model on the binary hallucination labels produced in Stage 2. Features include token-level overlap (Jaccard similarity of token sets), character-level normalised edit distance (Levenshtein distance divided by maximum string length), 19 and the cosine similarity score from the sentence transformer. The classifier is evaluated using F1, precision, recall, accuracy, ROC-AUC, log-loss, and Matthews Correlation Coefficient (MCC). 

# 8.1 Benchmark 1: Lexical Reconstruction of Roget’s Thesaurus 

The first benchmark uses the 1911 edition of Roget’s Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases 

(Roget, 1911), obtained from Project Gutenberg (1.5 MB plain text, 27,031 lines). Roget’s Thesaurus is a hierarchically organized semantic ontology that maps the English lexicon into a taxonomy of Classes, Sections, and Heads. At the highest level, Classes group broad conceptual domains (e.g., abstract relations, space, matter, intellect, volition, emotion). Each Class is subdivided into Sections that refine these domains into more specific thematic groupings, and each Section contains multiple Heads representing distinct semantic concepts. Each Head is a semantic concept associated with curated lists of nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, and cross-references to related Heads. The 1911 edition contains 1,000 Heads and represents one of the most meticulously organized knowledge structures in the history of English lexicography. A custom parser was written to extract all 997 valid Heads and their associated term lists from the plain text. The parser applies the following pre-processing steps to raw term strings: splitting on commas and semicolons; stripping parenthetical annotations (e.g., (inquire) 461 ); stripping bracketed Latin glosses (e.g., [Lat.] ); stripping &c. markers and bare numerals; and normalising to lowercase. A random sample of n = 30 Heads was drawn (random seed = 42), and 

gpt-4.1-mini was queried to reconstruct the five structured fields (noun list, verb list, adjective list, adverb list, cross-references) for each Head. 

8.1.1 Classical Evaluation 

The classical evaluation compares the LLM-generated term lists against the ground-truth Roget lists using token-set fuzzy matching. The results indicate extremely low reconstruction fidelity across all fields (Table 1). 20 Table 1: Classical evaluation results for Roget’s Thesaurus reconstruction ( n = 30 Heads). All scores are macro-averaged across Heads. 

Field Precision Recall F1 Accuracy 

noun_list 0.024 0.020 0.022 0.00 verb_list 0.019 0.020 0.020 0.00 adjective_list 0.017 0.019 0.018 0.00 adverb_list 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.00 cross_references 0.038 0.053 0.044 0.00 21 Figure 1: Classical evaluation of LLM reconstruction of Roget’s Thesaurus ( n = 30 Heads). The four panels show (top left) TP/FP/FN counts per field, (top right) precision, recall, F1, and accuracy per field, (bottom left) metric heatmap across all fields, and (bottom right) F1 score per field with reference thresholds at 0.4 and 0.7. The dominant category in the TP/FP/FN panel is false negatives, reflecting the model’s near-total inability to recall the 1911 vocabulary. All F1 scores are below 0.05; adverbs score exactly zero. The F1 scores range from 0.000 (adverbs) to 0.044 (cross-references), indicating near-total failure across all five fields. The model generates approximately 40 terms per field on average, while the ground-truth lists contain between 10 and 80 terms. The overwhelming majority of model-generated terms are absent from the 1911 text: they are modern synonyms, paraphrases, or outright fabrications that bear no lexical relationship to the Roget vocabulary. Simultaneously, the model misses over 98 % of the original terms, which include archaic, Latinate, and domain-specific vocabulary that has been displaced from contemporary usage. This pattern raises an important interpretive question for information quality research: does 22 structural hallucination arise from the model’s architectural properties or from temporal bias in its training distribution? One possible explanation is temporal skew. In general, LLMs are trained predominantly on contemporary corpora, in which archaic lexical forms from 1911 are likely underrepresented relative to their modern equivalents. From this perspective, substitution of con-temporary usage for historical vocabulary reflects distributional imbalance rather than structural incompetence (Bender et al., 2021; Bommasani et al., 2021). However, the magnitude and consis-tency of divergence observed here suggest that temporal bias alone is insufficient to explain the results. The model does not merely update archaic terms to modern equivalents; it reconstructs an alternative semantic neighbourhood while failing to preserve the relational constraints that define the original ontology. Because autoregressive transformers optimise next-token prediction rather than faithful graph retrieval (Vaswani et al., 2017), they lack an internal mechanism for enforcing structural consistency with an external historical knowledge system. In this sense, structural halluci-nation reflects an architectural property—probabilistic sequence modelling without grounded graph alignment— that temporal bias amplifies but does not fully determine. For information quality frameworks concerned with accuracy, completeness, and consistency (Lee et al., 2002; Wang and Strong, 1996), the distinction is consequential: a purely temporal bias could be mitigated through corpus rebalancing, whereas an architectural limitation requires external validation mechanisms such as the graph-based governance procedures developed in this study. The adverb field deserves particular attention. The model generates adverbs for 37 % of Heads where the original contains none, inventing content in the absence of any ground-truth signal. This is a textbook instance of structural hallucination: the model extrapolates from the presence of adjectives to the existence of adverbs, generating plausible but entirely fabricated content. The cross-reference field, which achieves the highest F1 score (0.044), still fails to correctly identify more than 95 % of the original cross-reference links, indicating that the model has no reliable knowledge of the relational structure of the Roget ontology. 

8.1.2 Semantic Similarity Analysis 

The semantic similarity analysis uses the all-MiniLM-L6-v2 sentence transformer to compute cosine similarity between the ground-truth and LLM term lists, treating each list as a single concatenated string. The results reveal a more nuanced picture than the classical evaluation (Figure 2). 23 Figure 2: Semantic similarity scores (cosine similarity using all-MiniLM-L6-v2 ) between ground-truth Roget term lists and LLM-generated lists, per field. Error bars show one standard deviation across the 30 sampled Heads. Nouns and adjectives achieve moderate similarity (0.43– 0.47), indicating conceptual alignment despite lexical divergence. Adverbs and cross-references score below 0.30, reflecting the model’s tendency to hallucinate content for these fields. Nouns and adjectives achieve moderate semantic similarity scores (0.43–0.47), indicating that the model captures the conceptual domain of each Head even when it fails to reproduce the exact vocabulary. This is consistent with the model functioning as a semantic reconstruction engine :it generates terms that are semantically related to the Head concept but drawn from contemporary rather than 1911 usage. This distinction is critical: semantic plausibility is not a substitute for lexical fidelity, and a researcher who relied on the model’s output for historical lexicographic work would be systematically misled. Adverbs and cross-references score substantially lower (0.26–0.27), reflecting the model’s tendency to hallucinate content for these fields. Cross-reference hallucination is particularly consequential: the model invents links to non-existent or semantically unrelated Heads, distorting the relational structure of the ontology in ways that are invisible to sentence-level evaluation. 

8.1.3 Hallucination Classification 

The hallucination classifier achieves near-perfect accuracy, confirming that hallucination is a distinct, detectable signal rather than random noise (Figure 3). 24 Figure 3: ROC curve for the hallucination classifier trained on the Roget benchmark. The near-perfect AUC confirms that hallucination is a systematic, structurally predictable failure mode rather than random error. The classifier uses token overlap, edit distance, and semantic similarity as features to distinguish hallucinated from genuine term matches. The classifier assigns the highest hallucination probabilities to adverbs (37 % of Heads) and cross-references (23 % of Heads). These are precisely the fields where the model has the least ground-truth signal to constrain its generation: adverbs are sparse in the original text, and cross-references require knowledge of the full ontological structure rather than the content of a single Head. 

8.1.4 Network-Analytic Hallucination Stress Test Graph Structure and Fabrication Rate. The directed knowledge graphs constructed from the Roget and LLM data exhibit dramatically different structural properties (Table 2). 25 Table 2: Structural comparison of the Roget and LLM directed knowledge graphs. Top central nodes are ranked by PageRank. 

Metric Roget Graph LLM Graph 

Nodes 2,708 1,066 Edges 2,694 1,093 Communities (Louvain) 29 28 Modularity Q 0.948 0.944 Node Jaccard similarity J 0.028 Edge Jaccard similarity J 0.015 LLM-only nodes (fabrications) 1,005 (94.3 %) 

Top 5 Nodes by PageRank 

1 dextrality brown 2 right tawny 3 right hand hazel 4 dexter chestnut 5 offside mahogany The node-set Jaccard similarity of 0.028 indicates near-complete divergence between the two graphs. It means that only 2.8 % of nodes are shared between the two graphs: the LLM-generated and Roget graphs are, for all practical purposes, disjoint knowledge structures. Of the 1,066 nodes in the LLM graph, 1,005 (94.3 %) are fabrications with no counterpart in the 1911 text. 26 (a) Roget directed knowledge graph. Blue nodes are Head nodes; green nodes are term nodes; red nodes are hallucination candidates (LLM-only terms that appear in the Roget graph through cross-reference). Edge colours encode relation type ( HAS_NOUN ,   

> HAS_VERB ,HAS_ADJ ,HAS_ADV ,CROSS_REF ).
> (b) LLM-generated directed knowledge graph. Red nodes dominate, indicating that the vast majority of terms generated by the model are fabrications absent from the 1911 Roget text. The structural topology is similar to the Roget graph (star-shaped communities connected by cross-reference edges), but the content is almost entirely invented.

Figure 4: Directed knowledge graphs for the Roget (left) and LLM-generated (right) datasets. Each cluster represents one of the 30 sampled Heads. The visual similarity of the two graphs conceals a near-total divergence in node content: the LLM has reproduced the structural form of the ontology while replacing virtually all of its substance with fabricated terms. This is the defining visual signature of structural hallucination. The visual comparison of the two graphs (Figure 4) reveals a striking paradox: the LLM-generated graph appears to be structurally similar to the Roget graph (star-shaped communities connected by cross-reference edges, similar modularity Q ≈ 0.944 vs. 0.948 ) but content-divergent 

(94.3 % fabricated nodes). The model has learned the form of a thesaurus ontology while being unable to reproduce its substance . This is precisely the mechanism of structural hallucination described in Section 3: the model generates output that is structurally plausible while being factually empty. 

Centrality Analysis and Conceptual Re-centering. The centrality comparison reveals the second failure mode: conceptual re-centering. 27 Figure 5: PageRank comparison between the top nodes of the Roget graph (blue) and LLM-generated graph (orange), with gold bars indicating LLM-only fabricated nodes that have been assigned high PageRank by the model. In the Roget graph, PageRank is concentrated on Head nodes, which are the canonical conceptual anchors of the ontology. In the LLM-generated graph, fabricated term nodes are elevated to positions of structural influence, displacing the canonical hierarchy. 

Figure 6: Betweenness centrality comparison between the Roget graph (blue) and LLM-generated graph (orange/gold). Gold bars indicate fabricated nodes that the model has placed in structurally critical gatekeeper positions. In the Roget graph, betweenness is concentrated on Head nodes that serve as genuine cross-reference hubs. In the LLM-generated graph, fabricated terms occupy gatekeeper positions, meaning that the model has invented the structural backbone of the ontology. 28 Figure 7: Degree distributions for the Roget (left) and LLM-generated (right) knowledge graphs. Both distributions follow a power-law-like pattern characteristic of hub-and-spoke ontological structures, consistent with scale-free network models (Barabási and Albert, 1999). However, the LLM-generated graph has a lower maximum degree and a different hub composition: the highest-degree nodes in the LLM-generated graph are predominantly fabricated terms rather than the canonical Head nodes that dominate the Roget graph. The PageRank and betweenness centrality comparisons (Figures 5 and 6) expose the mech-anism of conceptual re-centering. In the Roget graph, centrality is concentrated on Head nodes, which are the genuine conceptual anchors of the ontology. In the LLM graph, fabricated term nodes are elevated to high-centrality positions, effectively displacing the canonical ontological structure. The model alters the centrality hierarchy of the knowledge graph. Table 3: Top 10 nodes by PageRank centrality in the Roget (ground truth) and LLM-generated graphs. All LLM nodes shown are absent from the 1911 Roget ontology. 

Roget Top 10 (PageRank) LLM Top 10 (PageRank) 

dextrality brown right tawny right hand hazel dexter chestnut offside mahogany starboard cinnamon dextral auburn right-handed sepia dextrorsal russet dextrorse umber 29 Table 3 makes conceptual re-centering explicit. In the ground-truth graph, centrality is concentrated on canonical Head nodes related to the semantic field of “right” and spatial orientation. In contrast, the LLM-generated graph elevates a cluster of colour terms—none of which exist in the original Roget ontology—to the highest-centrality positions. The upward mobility of exclusively fabricated nodes provides a direct operational demonstration of structural hallucination: fabricated concepts occupy the most structurally influential positions in the generated graph. 

8.1.5 Historical Lexical Fidelity and Temporal Bias 

The lexical divergence observed in Benchmark 1 is not merely a matter of isolated error but reflects a systematic failure of historical lexical fidelity. The 1911 edition of Roget’s Thesaurus encodes a period-specific semantic ontology shaped by Victorian-era lexical norms, Latinate technical vocabulary, and classificatory conventions that differ substantially from contemporary usage. The LLM-generated output, by contrast, replaces this historically situated vocabulary with statistically dominant modern synonyms. Terms such as dextrality , dextrorsal , and dextrorse are displaced by colour descriptors (e.g., brown , hazel , russet ) that reflect contemporary lexical associations rather than the original semantic field. This substitution pattern suggests that structural hallucination in this context is not simply architectural failure but a consequence of temporal distributional bias in training data. LLMs optimise next-token prediction over corpora dominated by modern linguistic usage (Bender et al., 2021; Bommasani et al., 2021). As a result, historically distant or domain-specific vocabularies are statistically underweighted relative to contemporary high-frequency terms. When prompted to reconstruct a 1911 ontology without direct access to the source text, the model interpolates toward present-day lexical regularities. The outcome is an anachronistic reconstruction that preserves structural form while overwriting historical content. From an information quality perspective, this phenomenon constitutes a temporal accuracy failure: the generated representation is internally coherent yet historically misaligned. In knowledge organization terms, it represents an ontological drift, where the classificatory logic of one period is implicitly replaced by that of another (Tennis, 2002). The issue is thus not that the model produces semantically unrelated content, but that it re-centres the ontology around statistically salient contemporary concepts. Structural hallucination, in this case, operates through historical normalisation rather than random fabrication. 30 Table 4: Illustrative lexical divergence between the 1911 Roget ontology and LLM-generated replacements. Examples drawn from the sampled Head on spatial orientation. 

Roget 1911 Term (Ground Truth) LLM Replacement (Generated) 

dextrality brown dextrorsal hazel dextrorse russet dextral chestnut right hand mahogany starboard cinnamon offside tawny Table 4 provides qualitative grounding for the quantitative fabrication rate reported above. The Roget terms belong to a coherent semantic field related to spatial orientation and lateral direction, reflecting the classificatory logic of the 1911 ontology. The LLM-generated terms, by contrast, cluster around contemporary colour descriptors that are statistically salient in modern corpora but semantically unrelated to the original Head. The divergence is therefore not random lexical error but a systematic substitution of historically situated terminology with distributionally dominant contemporary vocabulary. This finding has direct implications for any application that uses LLM-generated knowledge graphs for downstream tasks such as semantic search, concept recommendation, or ontology alignment (Ehrlinger and Wöß, 2016; Paulheim, 2017). The most structurally influential nodes in the LLM-generated graph are precisely the ones that have no basis in reality. This pattern can be further interpreted through Hjørland’s domain-analytic approach, which holds that knowledge organization systems must reflect the historically situated epistemic norms of specific scholarly domains rather than abstract or universal semantic regularities (Hjørland, 2002, 2017). From a domain-analytic perspective, Roget’s 1911 ontology embodies the concep-tual structure, classificatory logic, and lexical conventions of its historical moment. The LLM’s replacement of period-specific terms with statistically dominant contemporary synonyms therefore represents not merely lexical substitution but a failure to respect domain-bound historical semantics. The resulting “ontological drift” reflects a shift from domain-specific epistemic organization to corpus-wide distributional generalisation. In this sense, structural hallucination can be understood as a breakdown in domain-sensitive representation: the model optimises for cross-domain statistical plausibility rather than fidelity to the internal historical logic of a particular knowledge organization system. 31 8.2 Benchmark 2: Biographical Knowledge — Wikidata Philosophers 

The second benchmark evaluates the LLM’s capacity to reconstruct structured biographical knowl-edge for 1,532 philosophers born between 1800 and 1850, sourced from Wikidata (Vrandeˇ ci´ c and Krötzsch, 2014). After matching LLM responses to Wikidata entries, 1,527 matched records were available for evaluation. The seven fields evaluated are: birth date, death date, place of birth, country of citizenship, influenced_by , and field of work. 

8.2.1 Results 

Table 5: Classical evaluation results for Wikidata philosopher reconstruction ( n = 1 ,527 matched records). Hallucination rate is the proportion of LLM-generated values classified as hallucinations (absent from both Wikidata and DBpedia). 

Field Precision Recall F1 Accuracy Hall. Rate 

birth 0.258 0.183 0.214 – 0.988 death 0.262 0.185 0.217 – 0.991 place_of_birth 0.144 0.129 0.136 – 0.938 country_of_citizenship 0.585 0.588 0.586 – 0.974 influenced_by 0.092 0.117 0.103 – 0.987 field_of_work 0.185 0.326 0.236 – 0.986 32 Figure 8: Classical evaluation of LLM reconstruction of Wikidata philosopher data ( n = 1 ,527 

matched records). The heatmap shows precision, recall, F1, and accuracy per field. Country of citizenship achieves the highest F1 (0.586), reflecting the model’s stronger performance on categor-ical fields with a small value space. Influenced_by achieves the lowest F1 (0.103), reflecting the model’s inability to accurately recall the specific intellectual lineages of 19th-century philosophers. Hallucination rates exceed 93 % for all fields. The results reveal a consistent pattern: the model performs better on categorical fields with a small, well-defined value space (country of citizenship: F1 = 0.586) and worse on set-valued fields requiring specific factual recall ( influenced_by : F1 = 0.103; place of birth: F1 = 0.136). Hallucination rates exceed 93 % across all evaluated fields, ranging from 93.8 % (place of birth) to 99.1 % (death date). The death date result is particularly striking. The model achieves an F1 of only 0.217 for 33 death dates, despite this being a scalar field with a single correct answer. The hallucination rate of 99.1 % means that virtually every death date provided by the model is absent from both Wikidata and DBpedia. The low F1 and high hallucination rate suggest generative approximation rather than factual retrieval. The influenced_by field highlights the model’s weakness on relational knowledge. With F1 = 0.103 and a hallucination rate of 98.7 %, the generated influence networks are largely inconsistent with the historical record. This illustrates structural distortion in relational biographical fields, consistent with the mechanism described in Section 3. 

Figure 9: Semantic similarity scores (cosine similarity using all-MiniLM-L6-v2 ) for the philosopher benchmark. Even for fields where the model achieves moderate F1 scores, the semantic similarity distributions are wide and low, indicating high variance in the quality of LLM output across philosophers. The wide distributions for influenced_by and field_of_work reflect the model’s inconsistent handling of relational and categorical fields. 

# 8.3 Benchmark 3: Bibliographic Knowledge — Citations Retrieved from Dimensions.ai 

The third benchmark evaluates the LLM’s capacity to reconstruct bibliographic data for 50 COVID-19 publications and their 654 citations, sourced from the Dimensions.ai API (Digital Science, 2026) via the dimcli Python library. For each one of these publications, the ten fields evaluated are: publication authors, title, year, date, DOI, type, concepts, research areas, times cited (i.e., the number of times the publication has been cited by other publications), and the full list of citations (references). 34 Figure 10: Hallucination probability per field for the philosopher benchmark, as assigned by the logistic regression hallucination classifier. The classifier assigns high hallucination probability to birth and death dates, influenced_by , and field of work — precisely the fields that require specific factual recall rather than categorical assignment. The near-zero probability for country of citizenship reflects the model’s relatively reliable performance on this categorical field. 

8.3.1 Citation Reconstruction Results 

For each publication in this ground-truth bibliographic dataset, we construct a standardized reference string concatenating the following three fields: authors, title, and year. That string is then sent to the LLM with a strict instruction to return a JSON object containing seven specific bibliographic fields (date, DOI, type, concepts, research areas, times cited, and citations). After the model’s response is parsed, cleaned, type-normalized, and converted into structured fields, we obtain an LLM-generated bibliographic record that can be directly aligned with and compared to the ground-truth dataset. The central quantitative finding of the bibliographic benchmark is the extremely low recall of the citation records. The ground-truth dataset contains 654 unique citations across 50 publications. The LLM returned only 53 citations in total — a recall rate of 8.1 %. More strikingly, the model attempted to provide any citations at all for only 14 of the 50 publications (28 %), leaving the remaining 36 publications (72 %) entirely without citations. Table 6: Citation recall statistics for the bibliographic benchmark. 

Metric Value 

Total ground-truth citations (Dimensions) 654 Total LLM-generated citations 53 Recall rate 8.1 % Omission rate 91.9 % Papers with > 0 LLM citations 14 / 50 (28 %) This pattern indicates a structural limitation rather than a prompting artifact. The scientific literature constitutes a relational database structure that is not directly retrievable through parametric 35 language generation. As argued in Section 3, this reflects bibliographic structural divergence: the model does not reliably reproduce the ground-truth citation records. 

8.3.2 Field-Level Results 

Table 7: Classical evaluation results for the Dimensions bibliographic benchmark ( n = 50 publica-tions). 

Field Precision Recall F1 Accuracy Hall. Rate 

date 0.39 0.44 0.39 0.18 ≈ 0

doi 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 ≈ 1.0

type 0.70 0.70 0.70 0.54 ≈ 0

time_cited 0.06 0.04 0.06 0.06 high main_concepts 0.22 0.23 0.23 0.11 0.20 research_areas 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.20 The field-level results reveal a clear stratification. The model performs adequately on fields with a small, well-defined value space (publication type: F1 = 0.70) and on fields that can be inferred from the publication title and year (date: F1 = 0.39). It fails completely on fields that require access to external databases: DOI (F1 = 0.01), times cited (F1 = 0.06), and research areas (F1 = 0.01). The DOI failure is particularly instructive. A DOI is a unique, persistent identifier that cannot be guessed or inferred; it must be looked up in a registry (Paskin, 2010). The model’s near-zero F1 score for DOIs confirms that it is not retrieving identifiers from memory but generating plausible-looking strings that happen to be wrong. The hallucination rate for DOIs approaches 100 %: virtually every DOI provided by the model is a fabrication. 36 Figure 11: Classical evaluation of LLM reconstruction of Dimensions bibliographic data ( n =50 publications). The four panels show (top left) TP/FP/FN/TN counts per field, (top right) precision/recall/F1/accuracy per field, (bottom left) a metric heatmap, and (bottom right) DOI validation status. The DOI validation panel is particularly revealing: the majority of LLM-generated DOIs are either empty or broken (invalid format), with only a small fraction being valid — and even valid DOIs are rarely correct. 

37 Figure 13: Hallucination probability per field for the bibliographic benchmark, as assigned by the logistic regression hallucination classifier. The classifier assigns the highest hallucination probabili-ties to times_cited , DOI, research_areas , and main_concepts . These are precisely the fields that require access to external databases or real-time citation counts — information that is structurally inaccessible to a language model operating from training data alone. 

# 8.4 Cross–Domain Structural Pattern 

Across the three benchmarks, a consistent structural pattern emerges. In the lexical domain, the language model reproduces ontological form while replacing historical vocabulary with semantically related contemporary terms. In the biographical domain, performance is relatively stronger for categorical fields with constrained value spaces and substantially weaker for relational fields requiring historically grounded network knowledge. In the bibliographic domain, identifier-based and citation-network fields exhibit extremely low recall, indicating non-retrievability of database-structured relations. Taken together, these results suggest that parametric language models generate semantically plausible approximations without reliably reconstructing externally verifiable relational structures. Classical field-level metrics capture local mismatch, but graph-based diagnostics reveal structural divergence that is not visible through token-level evaluation alone. This cross-domain consistency supports the structural hallucination hypothesis advanced in Section 3. 38 9 Discussion 

Table 8: Cross-domain structural divergence summary across lexical, biographical, and bibliographic benchmarks.              

> Domain Fabrication / Hallucination Jaccard Similarity Citation Omission
> Lexical (Roget) 94.3% fabricated nodes 0.028 –Biographical (Wikidata) >93% hallucinated fields ––Bibliographic (Dimensions) High (DOI ≈100%) –91.9%

Table 8 aggregates the structural failure pattern across the three empirical domains. Although the surface manifestations differ—node fabrication in lexical reconstruction, attribute hallucination in biographical records, and citation omission in bibliographic data—the underlying pattern is consistent: low structural overlap with authoritative reference systems and high rates of fabricated or missing relational elements. The cross-domain convergence strengthens the claim that structural hallucination reflects a systematic property of parametric generation rather than domain-specific noise. 

# 9.1 Three Failure Modes, One Underlying Mechanism 

Across the three benchmarks, a consistent pattern emerges. The language model functions as a generative interpolation system rather than a structured knowledge retrieval mechanism. It produces outputs that are statistically plausible relative to its training distribution but weakly aligned with specific, verifiable external knowledge structures. This mechanism manifests in three empirically distinct failure modes. 

Failure Mode 1: Fabrication and Confabulation. Hallucination rates exceed 93 % in several structured fields in the biographical benchmark and approach 100 % for DOI reconstruction in the bibliographic benchmark. These results indicate that the dominant error mode is not omission but fabrication: the generation of plausible but unsupported content. As noted in Section 2, fluency does not reliably signal fidelity (Huang et al., 2025). 

Failure Mode 2: Relational Non-Retrievability. The high citation omission rate (91.9 %) and the 94.3 % node fabrication rate in the Roget benchmark reflect an inability to reconstruct relational structures that exist in curated databases. While the language model can generate text describing 39 scholarly relationships, it does not reliably reproduce the underlying citation or ontological graph. In domains where relational structure is constitutive of knowledge organization (Garfield, 1955; Merton, 1973), this limitation has methodological consequences. 

Failure Mode 3: Conceptual Re-Centering. Network diagnostics reveal divergence in centrality structure between generated and reference graphs. Fabricated or peripheral nodes are elevated to structurally influential positions in the LLM-derived graphs. Such reconfiguration is not detectable through sentence-level evaluation alone. It requires graph-level comparison, as demonstrated in Section 5. Taken together, these patterns indicate that structural hallucination is not an isolated anomaly but a systematic property of parametric generation in the absence of direct database access. 

# 9.2 Methodological Implications 

The empirical findings have three methodological implications. First, LLM outputs should not be treated as substitutes for structured database retrieval when precise bibliographic or factual reconstruction is required. The observed fabrication and omission rates indicate that direct verification against authoritative sources remains necessary. Second, semantic similarity does not guarantee structural fidelity. Moderate semantic alignment in the Roget benchmark coexists with near-total node-set divergence. This confirms the analytical distinction between local plausibility and global relational alignment introduced earlier. Third, network-analytic comparison provides diagnostic information not captured by classi-cal precision–recall metrics. Measures such as node-set Jaccard similarity, centrality rank correla-tion, and modularity comparison expose structural divergence that would remain invisible under sentence-level evaluation alone. 

# 9.3 Limitations 

Several limitations qualify these findings. The study evaluates a single model ( gpt-4.1-mini ); results may differ for other architectures or retrieval-augmented systems, although the underlying mechanisms are likely to remain relevant (Huang et al., 2025; Ji et al., 2023). The Roget benchmark uses a sample of n = 30 Heads, limiting classical statistical power, though structural comparisons operate on the full induced graphs. The fuzzy matching threshold may underestimate partial lexical correspondence, and the DBpedia oracle is not exhaustive. These factors suggest avenues for 40 methodological refinement without altering the principal structural conclusions. 

# 10 Conclusion 

This paper has advanced two complementary contributions: a conceptual account of structural hallucination in large language models and a set of empirical benchmarks that operationalise its detection across lexical, biographical, and bibliographic domains. Conceptually, we defined structural hallucination as distortion at the level of relational organization rather than isolated factual inaccuracy. We argued that evaluation confined to sentence-level verification is inadequate for domains in which knowledge is organized through ontologies, authority records, and bibliographies. To address this gap, we introduced a reproducible validation architecture grounded in knowledge graph extraction, network-analytic diagnostics, and citation integrity verification. Empirically, the three benchmark experiments demonstrate substantial divergence between LLM-generated outputs and authoritative reference structures. The Roget benchmark reveals mini-mal node-set overlap despite structural similarity in graph topology. The Wikidata benchmark shows high fabrication rates in structured biographical fields. The bibliographic benchmark documents severe citation omission and near-zero fidelity for identifier reconstruction. Network-level diagnos-tics further reveal systematic centrality divergence and relational reconfiguration not captured by classical precision–recall metrics. Taken together, these findings indicate that semantic plausibility does not entail structural fidelity. In domains where relational configuration is constitutive of knowledge organization, graph-level evaluation provides diagnostic information unavailable through local accuracy metrics alone. Beyond research evaluation, the framework proposed here has direct implications for digital library governance. As libraries and indexing services experiment with AI-assisted metadata generation, subject assignment, and automated abstract enrichment, structural hallucination risks propagating into catalogues, authority files, and discovery layers. If fabricated entities, distorted centrality hierarchies, or omitted citation links are ingested without validation, they may become persistent indexing artifacts within institutional repositories. The hallucination stress test can be operationalised as a pre-ingestion quality-control layer within automated workflows. Before AI-generated metadata is committed to a permanent catalogue, curators could (i) extract a knowledge or citation graph from the generated record, (ii) compare 41 it against authoritative reference graphs or established bibliographic databases, and (iii) compute fabrication rates, omission rates, and centrality divergence thresholds. Records exceeding predefined structural deviation limits would trigger human review, while structurally aligned records could be integrated automatically. In this configuration, the stress test functions analogously to authority control and metadata validation procedures already embedded in digital library practice (Borgman, 1999; Tennis, 2012). Such integration would transform LLM oversight from reactive correction to proactive infrastructural design. Rather than allowing ontological drift to accumulate within digital knowledge systems, structural validation becomes a routine audit mechanism safeguarding epistemic continuity and interoperability across catalogues and scholarly databases. The framework and benchmarks presented here provide a methodological basis for evaluating structural alignment in LLM-generated scholarly representations. Future research may extend the approach to additional domains, incorporate retrieval-augmented architectures, and explore the interaction between parametric generation and external knowledge graphs. The broader challenge is not whether LLMs can produce fluent text, but how their outputs can be assessed for structural compatibility with established knowledge systems. 

# Data Availability Statement 

The ground-truth datasets used in the three benchmarks are publicly available: Roget’s Thesaurus 

(1911 edition) from Project Gutenberg ( https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/10681 ); philosopher data from Wikidata via SPARQL ( https://query.wikidata.org ); and biblio-graphic data from Dimensions.ai accessed via the dimcli Python library ( https://github. com/digital-science/dimcli ). The scripts used for data extraction, evaluation, and network analysis, along with processed benchmark datasets and LLM query logs, will be made available in a public repository upon acceptance of the manuscript. 

# References 

Alkaissi, H. and McFarlane, S. I. (2023). Artificial hallucinations in ChatGPT: Implications in scientific writing. Cureus , 15(2):e35179. 42 Arazy, O. and Kopak, R. (2011). On the measurability of information quality. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 62(1):89–99. Auer, S., Bizer, C., Kobilarov, G., Lehmann, J., Cyganiak, R., and Ives, Z. G. (2007). DBpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data. In The Semantic Web, 6th International Semantic Web Conference ,volume 4825 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science , pages 722–735. Springer. Barabási, A.-L. (2016). Network Science . Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. Barabási, A.-L. and Albert, R. (1999). Emergence of scaling in random networks. Science ,286(5439):509–512. Bender, E. M., Gebru, T., McMillan-Major, A., and Shmitchell, S. (2021). On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too big? In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency , FAccT ’21, pages 610–623. ACM. Blondel, V. D., Guillaume, J.-L., Lambiotte, R., and Lefebvre, E. (2008). Fast unfolding of communities in large networks. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment ,2008(10):P10008. Bommasani, R., Hudson, D. A., Adeli, E., Altman, R., Arora, S., von Arx, S., Bernstein, M. S., Bohg, J., Bosselut, A., Brunskill, E., et al. (2021). On the opportunities and risks of foundation models. Technical report, Stanford Center for Research on Foundation Models. arXiv:2108.07258. Bonacich, P. (1987). Power and centrality: A family of measures. American Journal of Sociology ,92(5):1170–1182. Borgman, C. L. (1999). What are digital libraries? Competing visions. Information Processing & Management , 35(3):227–243. Bowker, G. C. and Star, S. L. (1999). Sorting Things Out: Classification and Its Consequences .MIT Press. Chen, L., Deng, Y., Bian, Y., Qin, Z., Wu, B., Chua, T.-S., and Chang, K.-F. (2023). Beyond factuality: A comprehensive evaluation of large language models as knowledge generators. In 

Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,pages 6325–6341. Association for Computational Linguistics. Digital Science (2026). Dimensions. https://www.dimensions.ai . Accessed: February 2026. 43 Ehrlinger, L. and Wöß, W. (2016). Towards a definition of knowledge graphs. In Joint Proceedings of the Posters and Demos Track of the 12th International Conference on Semantic Systems (SEMANTiCS 2016) .Freeman, L. C. (1977). A set of measures of centrality based on betweenness. Sociometry ,40(1):35–41. Garfield, E. (1955). Citation indexes for science: A new dimension in documentation through association of ideas. Science , 122(3159):108–111. Hjørland, B. (2003). Fundamentals of knowledge organization. Knowledge Organization , 30(2):87– 111. Hjørland, B. (2021). Information retrieval and knowledge organization: A perspective from the philosophy of science. Information , 12(3):135. Hjørland, B. (2002). Domain analysis in information science: Eleven approaches – traditional as well as innovative. Journal of Documentation , 58(4):422–462. Hjørland, B. (2017). Domain analysis. Knowledge Organization , 44(6):436–464. Hogan, A., Blomqvist, E., Cochez, M., d’Amato, C., de Melo, G., Gutierrez, C., Kirrane, S., Gayo, J. E. L., Navigli, R., Neumaier, S., Ngomo, A.-C. N., Polleres, A., Rashid, S. M., Rula, A., Schmelzeisen, L., Sequeda, J., Staab, S., and Zimmermann, A. (2021). Knowledge graphs. ACM Computing Surveys , 54(4):71:1–71. Huang, L., Yu, W., Ma, W., Zhong, W., Feng, Z., Wang, H., Chen, Q., Peng, W., Feng, X., Qin, B., and Liu, T. (2025). A survey on hallucination in large language models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and open questions. ACM Transactions on Information Systems , 43(2):1–55. Jaradeh, M. Y., Auer, S., Prinz, M., Kovtun, V., Stocker, M., Madi, N., and Oelen, A. (2019). Open research knowledge graph: Towards machine actionability in scholarly communication. In 

Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Knowledge Capture , K-CAP ’19, pages 1–4. ACM. Ji, Z., Lee, N., Frieske, R., Yu, T., Su, D., Xu, Y., Ishii, E., Bang, Y. J., Madotto, A., and Fung, P. (2023). Survey of hallucination in natural language generation. ACM Computing Surveys ,55(12):248:1–248:38. Kling, R. (2000). Learning about information technologies and social change: The contribution of social informatics. The Information Society , 16(3):217–232. 44 Lee, Y. W., Strong, D. M., Kahn, B. K., and Wang, R. Y. (2002). AIMQ: A methodology for information quality assessment. Information & Management , 40(2):133–146. Lin, C.-Y. (2004). ROUGE: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Proceedings of ACL Workshop .Lindebaum, D., Nolan, E., Ashraff, M., and Islam, G. (2025). The transformation of epistemic agency and governance in higher education through large language models: Toward a future of organized immaturity. Organization Studies .Lund, B. D., Wang, T., Mannuru, N. R., Nie, B., Shimray, S., and Wang, Z. (2023). ChatGPT and a new academic reality: Artificial Intelligence-written research papers and the ethics of the large language models in scholarly publishing. Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology , 74(5):570–581. Maynez, J., Narayan, S., Bohnet, B., and McDonald, R. (2020). On faithfulness and factuality in abstractive summarization. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 1906–1919. Association for Computational Linguistics. Merton, R. K. (1973). The Sociology of Science: Theoretical and Empirical Investigations . Univer-sity of Chicago Press, Chicago. Newman, M. E. J. (2010). Networks: An Introduction . Oxford University Press, Oxford. Newman, M. E. J. and Girvan, M. (2004). Finding and evaluating community structure in networks. 

Physical Review E , 69(2):026113. Olson, H. A. (2002). The Power to Name: Locating the Limits of Subject Representation in Libraries .Kluwer Academic. Orduña-Malea, E. and Cabezas-Clavijo, Á. (2023). ChatGPT and the potential growing of ghost bibliographic references. Scientometrics , 128:5351–5355. Page, L., Brin, S., Motwani, R., and Winograd, T. (1999). The PageRank citation ranking: Bringing order to the web. Technical Report 1999-66, Stanford InfoLab. Pan, S., Luo, L., Wang, Y., Chen, C., Wang, J., and Wu, X. (2024). Unifying large language models and knowledge graphs: A roadmap. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering ,36(7):3580–3599. Papagiannidis, E., Mikalef, P., and Conboy, K. (2025). Responsible artificial intelligence governance: A review and research framework. The Journal of Strategic Information Systems , 34(2):101885. 45 Papineni, K., Roukos, S., Ward, T., and Zhu, W.-J. (2002). BLEU: a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of ACL , pages 311–318. Paskin, N. (2010). Digital object identifier (DOI®) system. Encyclopedia of Library and Information Sciences , pages 1586–1592. Paulheim, H. (2017). Knowledge graph refinement: A survey of approaches and evaluation methods. 

Semantic Web , 8(3):489–508. Pipino, L. L., Lee, Y. W., and Wang, R. Y. (2002). Data quality assessment. Communications of the ACM , 45(4):211–218. Rawte, V., Sheth, A., and Das, A. (2023). A survey of hallucination in large foundation models. 

arXiv preprint . arXiv:2309.05922. Reimers, N. and Gurevych, I. (2019). Sentence-BERT: Sentence embeddings using Siamese BERT-networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 3982–3992. Association for Computational Linguistics. Roget, P. M. (1911). Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases . Longmans, Green and Co., London, new edition, revised and enlarged edition. Electronic edition: Project Gutenberg, 

https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/10681 .Sansford, H., Richardson, N., Maretic, H. P., and Saada, J. N. (2024). GraphEval: A knowledge-graph based LLM hallucination evaluation framework. arXiv preprint . arXiv:2407.10793. Strong, D. M., Lee, Y. W., and Wang, R. Y. (1997). Data quality in context. Communications of the ACM , 40(5):103–110. Stvilia, B., Gasser, L., Twidale, M. B., and Smith, L. C. (2007). A framework for information quality assessment. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology ,58(12):1720–1733. Tennis, J. T. (2002). Subject ontogeny: Subject access through time and the dimensionality of classification. In Challenges in Knowledge Representation and Organization for the 21st Century: Integration of Knowledge across Boundaries. Proceedings of the Seventh International ISKO Conference , volume 8 of Advances in Knowledge Organization , pages 54–59, Granada, Spain. Ergon. Granada, Spain, July 10–13, 2002. Tennis, J. T. (2012). The strange case of eugenics: A subject’s ontogeny in a long-lived classification scheme and the question of collocative integrity. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology , 63(7):1350–1359. 46 Tonmoy, S. M. T. I., Zaman, S. M. M., Jain, V., Rani, A., Rawte, V., Chadha, A., and Das, A. (2024). A comprehensive survey of hallucination mitigation techniques in large language models. arXiv preprint . arXiv:2401.01313. van Dis, E. A. M., Bollen, J., Zuidema, W., van Rooij, R., and Bockting, C. L. (2023). ChatGPT: Five priorities for research. Nature , 614:224–226. Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, L., and Polosukhin, I. (2017). Attention is all you need. In Guyon, I., von Luxburg, U., Bengio, S., Wallach, H. M., Fergus, R., Vishwanathan, S. V. N., and Garnett, R., editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 30: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2017, December 4–9, 2017, Long Beach, CA, USA , pages 5998–6008. Vrandeˇ ci´ c, D. and Krötzsch, M. (2014). Wikidata: A free collaborative knowledge base. Communi-cations of the ACM , 57(10):78–85. Wang, C., Liu, X., Yue, Y., Tang, X., Zhang, T., Jiayang, C., Yao, Y., Gao, W., Hu, X., Qi, Z., et al. (2023). Survey on factuality in large language models: Knowledge, retrieval and domain-specificity. arXiv preprint . arXiv:2310.07521. Wang, R. Y. and Strong, D. M. (1996). Beyond accuracy: What data quality means to data consumers. Journal of Management Information Systems , 12(4):5–33. Weidinger, L., Mellor, J., Rauh, M., Griffin, C., Uesato, J., Huang, P.-S., Cheng, M., Glaese, M., Balle, B., Kasirzadeh, A., et al. (2021). Ethical and social risks of harm from language models. Technical report, DeepMind. arXiv:2112.04359. Zeng, M. L. (2008). Knowledge organization systems (KOS). Knowledge Organization , 35(2– 3):160–182. 47