Title: SeDa: A Unified System for Dataset Discovery and Multi-Entity Augmented Semantic Exploration

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.07502v2

Published Time: Thu, 12 Mar 2026 00:30:28 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# SeDa: A Unified System for Dataset Discovery and Multi-Entity Augmented Semantic Exploration 

# Kan Ling 

East China University of Science and Technology Shanghai, China Y30241065@mail.ecust.edu.cn 

# Zhen Qin 

East China University of Science and Technology Shanghai, China Y40250621@mail.ecust.edu.cn 

# Yichi Zhu 

East China University of Science and Technology Shanghai, China Y30241060@mail.ecust.edu.cn 

# Hengrun Zhang ∗

East China University of Science and Technology Shanghai, China zhanghengrun@ecust.edu.cn 

# Huiqun Yu ∗

East China University of Science and Technology Shanghai, China yhq@ecust.edu.cn 

# Guisheng Fan ∗

East China University of Science and Technology Shanghai, China gsfan@ecust.edu.cn 

## Abstract 

The continuous expansion of open data platforms and research repositories has led to a fragmented dataset ecosystem, posing significant challenges for cross-source data discovery and inter-pretation. To address these challenges, we introduce SeDa–a uni-fied framework for dataset discovery, semantic annotation, and multi-entity augmented navigation. SeDa integrates more than 7.6 million datasets from over 200 platforms, spanning governmental, academic, and industrial domains. The framework first performs se-mantic extraction and standardization to harmonize heterogeneous metadata representations. On this basis, a topic-tagging mechanism constructs an extensible tag graph that supports thematic retrieval and cross-domain association, while a provenance assurance mod-ule embedded within the annotation process continuously validates dataset sources and monitors link availability to ensure reliability and traceability. Furthermore, SeDa employs a multi-entity aug-mented navigation strategy that organizes datasets within a knowl-edge space of sites, institutions, and enterprises, enabling contex-tual and provenance-aware exploration beyond traditional search paradigms. Comparative experiments with popular dataset search platforms, such as ChatPD and Google Dataset Search, demonstrate that SeDa achieves superior coverage, timeliness, and traceabil-ity. Taken together, SeDa establishes a foundation for trustworthy, semantically enriched, and globally scalable dataset exploration. 

## Keywords 

dataset search, topic annotation, provenance awareness, multi-entity navigation. 

## 1 Introduction 

With the rapid advances in artificial intelligence and data science, datasets have become fundamental resources for model training, task evaluation, and scientific discovery. A growing number of open platforms are now publishing and aggregating diverse datasets[ 6], such as government-led data portals [ 21 , 29 , 51 ], academic reposito-ries [ 2, 11 ], and enterprise or community-based sites [ 1 ]. However, these platforms exhibit significant heterogeneity in data formats, metadata schemas, and organizational granularity. On the other 

> ∗Corresponding author

hand, users usually do not just demand for a targeted retrieval, i.e., seeking a specific dataset relevant to a particular task. Instead, they may want to systematically explore available resources. Con-sequently, the ways in which datasets are acquired, organized, and discovered have attracted increasing attention. Paton et al. [ 42 ] identify four key components of dataset discov-ery and exploration: dataset search , data navigation , data annotation , and schema inference . Therein, the first compo-nent can be seen as the original goal, which can be enhanced by the latter three. The need to conduct systematic exploration centered on a research topic calls for effective data navigation mechanisms to traverse relationships between datasets. Fundamentally, addressing these user-facing challenges and obtaining a structured, unified view of the data landscape depends on foundational capabilities in data annotation and schema inference. Data annotation is required to resolve semantic inconsistencies by linking heterogeneous data elements to common vocabularies, while schema inference is nec-essary to generate a consolidated and abstract representation of the underlying data structures. Despite the efforts made by current popular dataset search plat-forms, none of them achieves comprehensive consideration of the above four components, which restricts the applicability to some ex-tent. For example, Google Dataset Search (GDS) [ 7] tackles schema inference based on schema.org metadata and aggregates datasets from various providers, exhibiting strong coverage. However, GDS only relies on titles or brief descriptions for search, making it insuf-ficient for handling complex semantic queries. It also lacks effective organization and tagging mechanisms (as shown in Fig. 1(a)), limit-ing users’ ability to quickly interpret and filter search results. On the other hand, Papers with Code (PwC, now Trending Papers in HuggingFace) [ 34 ] augments data navigation via extracting dataset references from scholarly papers and constructing paper–dataset networks to assist discovery in research contexts. Recent ChatPD [ 57 ] further automates data annotation to save human resources and improve efficiency. Nonetheless, due to their exclusive focus on literature sources, they exhibit limited coverage of the broader dataset landscape. Additionally, their information organization is centered around publications, often lacking access pathways (URLs) and structured representations, which hinders practical utility (as shown in Fig.1(b)).  

> arXiv:2603.07502v2 [cs.IR] 11 Mar 2026 Ling et al. No tags for data navigation
> (a) Google Dataset Search Limited dataset landscape and
> no URLs for traceability (b) ChatPD

Figure 1: Illustration of missing metadata elements in (a) Google Dataset Search and (b) ChatPD. Here, the dataset MS COCO has the URL, while Teapots and 3DShapes does not. 

In this work, we propose SeDa (abbreviation of Se lect Da taset), a unified framework for large-scale dataset discovery and explo-ration. SeDa leverages large language models (LLMs) to conduct schema inference from not only traditional dataset metadata but also textual contents (e.g., paper abstracts, sections of full texts, or README files), greatly expanding resource coverage. Besides, three entity types are considered for the dataset repository develop-ment and data navigation augmentation, i.e., site , institution ,and enterprise , which correspond to three major data sources: data hosting, data publishing, and data trading. Finally, SeDa au-tomates data annotation [ 33 , 56 ], and ensures effective and non-repetitive provenance [ 22 , 36 , 55 ]. The relevant service has already been deployed on https://www.selectdataset.com/ , and the key contributions are summarized as follows: 

• Cross-platform standardized integration (schema in-ference): We design a scalable extraction and normaliza-tion pipeline for heterogeneous data platforms with the help of LLMs, aligning field semantics and schema struc-tures. This enables self-evolving construction of a unified dataset repository which currently contains over 7.6 million records across 200+ platforms, providing a solid foundation for cross-platform indexing and retrieval. 

• Multi-entity augmented retrieval (data navigation): 

We introduce a dataset retrieval framework augmented by three entity types, including hosting sites, institutions, and enterprises. By integrating LLMs, the system delivers structured, coherent, and interpretable exploration results tailored to users’ semantic queries. 

• Automated tagging and provenance (data annotation): 

Beyond the core pipeline, we construct a tagging system that annotates datasets with topical domains to support effi-cient exploration and filtering, while relying on provenance validation to maintain traceability. All the prompt templates used in the system pipeline are listed in Appendix D. While the interface is currently Chinese-only, users can still search in English and rely on browser plugins for a seamless translated experience. We expect SeDa to ultimately serve as a comprehensive, structured, and up-to-date entry point for dataset discovery across scientific, industrial, and educational contexts. 

## 2 Related Work 

Data discovery has become an important topic in data management and AI communities. Existing research can be broadly categorized into three technical directions: platform aggregation and standard-ization systems, literature-driven and recommendation-based re-trieval, and semantic enrichment and model-driven exploration. 

Platform aggregation and standardization systems. Schema inference is mainly discussed in this category, with Google Dataset Search (GDS) [ 7 ] as the most representative system. It leverages 

schema.org ’s dataset markup to index web pages, enabling unified access to resources from governmental, academic, and enterprise domains. This significantly improves dataset accessibility, yet the search results largely depend on surface-level metadata fields such as titles and descriptions, lacking deeper semantic organization. In parallel, the open data ecosystem has promoted interoperability standards such as W3C’s DCAT [ 54 ] and its European extension DCAT-AP. CKAN [ 5], as a widely deployed open-source portal soft-ware, provides cataloging and API services for government and research institutions. Further explorations include systems such as Auctus [ 9 ], which support more advanced query constraints and dataset augmentation in discovery tasks. Nevertheless, despite progress in aggregation and standardization, these systems remain limited in semantic-driven organization, multi-faceted result pre-sentation, and cross-entity retrieval. 

Literature-driven and recommendation-based retrieval. 

Another research line focuses on data navigation via organizing dataset information from scientific papers. Papers with Code (PwC) [34 ] explicitly builds a task-paper-dataset graph, greatly enhancing visibility of datasets in research contexts. Viswanathan et al. intro-duce DataFinder [ 52 ], which formalizes dataset recommendation as a natural language retrieval task. They construct a benchmark con-sisting of 17.5k automatically generated training queries and 392 SeDa: A Unified System for Dataset Discovery and Multi-Entity Augmented Semantic Exploration 

expert-annotated test queries. Based on that, they train a bi-encoder dense retriever outperforming GDS and PwC. More recent ChatPD [57 ] leverages LLMs to automatically extract and align dataset enti-ties from papers, enabling large-scale construction of paper-dataset networks. While these methods progressively strengthen dataset discovery in research contexts, they are inherently constrained by literature platforms and remain centered around papers, lacking cross-platform and multi-entity perspectives. 

Semantic enrichment and model-driven exploration. The third line of research investigates semantic enrichment or data anno-tation in broader data understanding tasks. Doduo [ 48 ] proposes a dual-channel pretraining framework that integrates column seman-tics and table structure, improving column annotation and relation prediction, and thereby supporting downstream data integration and retrieval. Chorus [ 30 ] further demonstrates the potential of foundation models in data exploration by unifying tasks such as column type recognition, table classification, and join prediction. LLM4Tag [ 50 ] further explores graph-conditioned LLM tagging by propagating semantics over content–tag graphs and consolidating candidate topics via LLM reasoning. Though these approaches do not directly address dataset search, they highlight the potential of semantic modeling and LLMs in enhancing data discovery. 

## 3 Problem Definition 

Our proposed system comprehensively considers four key compo-nents in dataset discovery and exploration, which correspond to the following four problems. 

## 3.1 Dataset Search 

Dataset search provides a basic retrieval step that maps a user query to a set of related candidate datasets in the repository. Given a query 

𝑞 , the system returns an initial result set 𝑅 (𝑞 ):

𝑅 (𝑞 ) = Search (𝑞 ).

## 3.2 Data Navigation 

Data navigation extends the initial retrieval results 𝑅 (𝑞 ) by incorpo-rating topic tags (or labels) and provenance information to surface related datasets and source entities. For each dataset 𝑑 ∈ 𝑅 (𝑞 ), the system searches the global collection 𝐷 for datasets that share the same source ( source_name ) or overlapping topic tags ( tag ): 

𝐷 nav = { 𝑑 ′ ∈ 𝐷 |𝑑 ′ .source_name = 𝑑. source_name 

∨ 𝑑 ′ .tag ∩ 𝑑. tag ≠ ∅ } .

In parallel, the system queries a knowledge space K = {𝑆, 𝐼, 𝐸 }

to retrieve information about the corresponding source entity, in-cluding sites ( 𝑆 ), institutions ( 𝐼 ), and enterprises ( 𝐸 ): 

𝐼 src = SourceInfo (𝑑. source_name , K) .

The resulting related datasets and source entities are summarized using an LLM to provide a concise overview for users: 

𝑅 ′ (𝑞 ) = LLM _Summarize (𝐷 nav , 𝐼 src ).

## 3.3 Data Annotation 

Data annotation aims to automatically generate domain-level topic tags for each dataset, thereby improving its semantic interpretability and organizational structure. For each dataset, the system generates two topic tags ( tag ), corresponding to its primary research domain and application area. Let 𝐷 = {𝑑 1, 𝑑 2, . . . , 𝑑 𝑛 } denote the dataset collection, and let T = {𝑡 1, 𝑡 2, . . . , 𝑡 𝑚 } denote the vocabulary of candidate topic tags, which may expand over time (Section 4.2). The annotation process is defined as: 

Annotate (𝑑 𝑖 ) → 𝐴 𝑖 , 𝐴 𝑖 ⊆ T ,

where 𝐴 𝑖 denotes the set of labels assigned to dataset 𝑑 𝑖 .During annotation, provenance information is maintained through periodic, site-level dead-link detection, which validates dataset URLs and ensures that assigned labels correspond to accessible and traceable data sources. 

## 3.4 Schema Inference 

Schema inference provides a normalization mechanism that con-verts raw dataset descriptions from heterogeneous platforms into a unified structural representation. For each data source 𝑠 𝑖 , the system applies a source-specific extraction and cleaning process, denoted as Λ𝑠 𝑖 , to produce a structured dataset object 𝑑 𝑖 :

Λ𝑠 𝑖 : raw description → 𝑑 𝑖 , 𝑑 𝑖 ∈ 𝐷, 

where each 𝑑 𝑖 ∈ 𝐷 follows a standardized schema, including fields such as name, description, URL, source site, data type, and scale. After schema normalization, redundant or near-duplicate records are removed via deduplication to yield the final dataset collection: 

Γ(𝐷 ) = { 𝑑 𝑖 ∈ 𝐷 |  𝑑 𝑗 ∈ 𝐷, 𝑑 𝑗 ≠ 𝑑 𝑖 ∧ sim (𝑑 𝑖 , 𝑑 𝑗 ) ≥ 𝜃 }.

where sim (·) denotes a similarity function over dataset representa-tions and 𝜃 is a predefined threshold. This process produces a clean, consistent repository for downstream retrieval and analysis. 

## 4 System Design 

The general architecture of SeDa is shown in Fig. 2. We introduce three modules, i.e., multi-source data integration (for schema in-ference), topic tagging and provenance (for data annotation), and multi-entity augmented navigation (for data navigation), to enhance the dataset search ability. 

## 4.1 Multi-source Data Integration 

Schema inference addresses the structural and semantic heterogene-ity that arises when integrating datasets from diverse repositories, a challenge widely observed in existing dataset platforms [20, 32]. 

4.1.1 Data Acquisition. Data crawling is the initial stage of our framework, aiming to collect dataset metadata from heterogeneous platforms to support subsequent processing and retrieval. 

Data Sources. SeDa integrates widely used data platforms span-ning scientific research, artificial intelligence, and public gover-nance. Representative examples include HuggingFace [ 24 ] and Kag-gle [ 28 ] for machine learning datasets, DataCite Commons [ 15 ]and Mendeley Data [ 35 ] for multidisciplinary scientific data, and data.europa [ 17 ] for governance-related open data. Community-driven platforms such as DataONE [ 16 ], GBIF [ 18 ], and the Global Health Data Exchange contribute domain-specific datasets. To further enhance coverage and timeliness, SeDa extracts dataset mentions from scholarly articles, following prior work such as Ling et al. Dataset Card       

> {
> "Name": "ImageNet",
> "Desc": "Large-scale dataset ...",
> "Source": "Stanford ...",
> "Type": "Image",
> ...
> }
> Duplication
> Initial
> Collection
> Crawl
> ……
> Multi-source Data Integration
> Periodic
> Monitoring
> Y
> N
> Metadata
> Audit and
> Completion
> Extration
> Chosen Tag
> Search
> Query
> "MNIST"
> Dataset Search
> Tagging and Provenance
> "URL"
> Candidate Tags
> Link
> Detection
> "Alive"
> "Dead"
> {
> "Name": "MNIST",
> "Tag": "Image Classification",
> "Source": "Huggingface",
> ...
> }
> Multi-entity Navigation
> "Tag"=" Image Classification "
> Associated Datasets
> Site Enterprise
> Final Result
> Summary
> "Name"
> "Description"
> Dataset
> source ：
> Initial Results
> Tag Graph
> "Source"="Huggingface"
> Knowledge Base Dataset
> Initial Results
> Dataset
> Repository
> Institution

Figure 2: Overall architecture of the proposed system. 

ChatPD. We continuously monitor newly published arXiv [ 4] pa-pers on a weekly basis, focusing on those containing keywords such as dataset and benchmark . Extracted dataset mentions are treated as candidate signals and cross-validated against existing multi-source repositories. Since most datasets referenced in schol-arly articles are already hosted on integrated platforms, this work-flow reduces the latency between academic exposure and dataset integration. 

Crawling Methods and Update Strategies. To accommodate heterogeneous platforms, the framework separates data acquisi-tion from update strategies. Specifically, API-based acquisition is adopted for platforms, where structured metadata can be collected via standardized APIs. For platforms without API support, site-based crawling is employed to perform targeted web crawling and parsing. In addition, one-time acquisition is used for relatively static plat-forms to reduce maintenance overhead, while periodic updates are applied to frequently changing platforms to capture newly released or updated datasets. This design enables robustness and scalability across heterogeneous platforms. 

Common Crawl Supplement. We further incorporate Com-mon Crawl as a supplementary data source to capture long-tail datasets that are often absent from conventional repositories. Com-mon Crawl provides large-scale, monthly web crawl data covering a wide range of publicly accessible web content [ 53 ]. Within the system, Common Crawl data are processed by extracting dataset-related metadata from JSON-LD objects embedded in web pages. Fields conforming to the schema.org dataset specification will be parsed directly, while LLMs are used to assist in extracting and validating key attributes such as dataset name, description, and provider. These complementary strategies enable robust extraction, after which the extracted records undergo cleaning, normalization, deduplication, and update verification before integration. 

4.1.2 Data Processing. After acquisition, we process heterogeneous raw records to unify, enrich, and standardize dataset metadata, pro-viding a consistent foundation for retrieval and navigation. For records that already conform to the schema.org dataset spec-ification, the system performs metadata validation and enrichment to ensure alignment with the unified target schema. As highlighted by Koesten et al. [ 31 ], descriptive summaries are essential for po-tential use cases. Accordingly, when such summaries are missing or incomplete, the system leverages LLMs to generate concise de-scriptions, improving semantic interpretability and retrievability. In contrast, many heterogeneous sources lack standardized meta-data and exhibit diverse content structures. Following automated metadata creation principles [ 13 ] and recent evidence on LLM-based extraction from unstructured text [ 3 , 57 ], we adopt a continuous metadata processing strategy that extracts relevant textual content and applies LLM-assisted metadata extraction during ongoing main-tenance. For scholarly repositories such as arXiv [ 4], abstracts and full-text sections are analyzed, while for code hosting platforms such as GitHub [ 19 ], README files are processed, enabling incre-mental updates of metadata fields and extraction strategies as new source characteristics emerge. The unified, extensible extraction prompt is provided in Appendix D.2. 

4.1.3 Deduplication. Large-scale aggregation across heterogeneous platforms inevitably introduces substantial redundancy, as the same dataset is often re-published or cross-referenced with inconsistent metadata. Accordingly, SeDa incorporates a scalable, multi-stage deduplication pipeline that operates in three stages. First, explicit identifier matching efficiently removes exact and near-exact duplicates by merging records with identical normalized dataset names or canonicalized URLs. Second, a hash-based block-ing strategy prunes the candidate space, ensuring that only a small subset of potentially related records are compared further. Finally, semantic similarity matching is applied within each block to identify duplicates exhibiting lexical or structural variation across platforms. All detected duplicate relations are organized into a deduplication graph, where each connected component corresponds to a unique dataset entity. Within each cluster, SeDa selects a canonical record based on metadata completeness and source reliability, while pre-serving complementary attributes for provenance and traceability. Implementation details and cases are provided in Appendix B. 

## 4.2 Topic Tagging and Provenance 

Dataset annotation enriches records with domain-level topic tags for semantic grouping, while incorporating dead-link detection to ensure dataset availability and traceability. 

4.2.1 Topic Tag. We adapt the graph-conditioned LLM tagging system in [ 50 ] (LLM4Tag) to dataset-level topic annotation, with SeDa: A Unified System for Dataset Discovery and Multi-Entity Augmented Semantic Exploration 

Figure 3: Tag graph construction. 

several key modifications to better accommodate heterogeneous datasets and sparse metadata. Specifically, we augment the original content–tag recall framework with (i) an explicit candidate tag extraction stage to construct a compact and domain-aware initial tag pool, (ii) an additional tag–tag (T2T) relation induced by tag co-occurrence to complement the dataset-driven recall paths, and (iii) a vocabulary evolution mechanism that writes newly generated tags back into the controlled tag pool. 

Candidate Tag Pool Construction. For a typical industrial information retrieval system, topical annotations are often massive yet sparse [ 50 ], motivating the explicit construction of an initial tag pool. We first identify datasets with high-quality existing tags as seed sources. In parallel, for well-curated or canonical datasets with rich metadata, we employ LLMs to generate concise topical de-scriptions. After manual verification and quality control, these tags are normalized and deduplicated to form a compact candidate tag pool, which serves as the basis for subsequent graph construction and annotation. 

Graph Construction. As illustrated in Fig. 3, following LLM4Tag, each dataset is connected to candidate tags via semantic similar-ity, enabling dataset-to-tag (D2T, analogous to C2T in LLM4Tag) recall, while similar datasets further support multi-hop dataset-to-dataset-to-tag (D2D2T) recall. Beyond these dataset-driven paths, we introduce an additional tag-to-tag (T2T) relation derived from tag co-occurrence statistics across dataset descriptions, where edge weights reflect co-occurrence frequency [ 10 , 47 ]. This extra meta-path captures latent topical associations between tags and comple-ments the original recall graph. 

Candidate Recall and Tag Refinement. Each dataset is repre-sented by jointly encoding its title and description into a unified sentence embedding. Given a target dataset, candidate tags are re-called via the aforementioned meta-paths, yielding a compact set of potentially relevant topics (four candidates in the example shown in Fig. 3). Building upon this recalled set, we employ an LLM-based semantic consolidation step, following the general paradigm of LLM4Tag, to filter out irrelevant candidates and select two concise and representative tags for each dataset. In this example, the LLM discards the off-topic tag Adverse Weather and selects Automatic Driving and Pedestrian Detection as the final topics for annotation. We further define a less-relevant tag Traffic Perception , which has weak semantic relevance to but the same domain as the target dataset. This type of tags will not be used for dataset association but listed in the tag column to the left of the dataset cards (see Fig. 4), which supports exploration. When the candidate topic tags recalled through the three graph-based paths are insufficient, this may be due to weak semantic relevance to the target dataset or the emergence of a previously uncovered domain. Since each dataset must be annotated with two representative topic tags, we allow the LLM to supplement more suitable tags based on the dataset title and description when the recalled candidates fail to meet this requirement. As illustrated on the right side of Fig. 3, if the LLM introduces no new tags, the annotation process terminates after updating the graph structures associated with the current dataset node. Otherwise, newly gen-erated tags are written back into the controlled vocabulary and inserted into the tag graph, with corresponding tag–tag relations updated, enabling continuous evolution of the topic pool. Implementation details are in Algorithm 1 of Appendix A. 

4.2.2 Dead Link Detection. Given the pervasive phenomenon of link decay in open data ecosystems, where a substantial fraction of dataset URLs become inaccessible over time [ 8, 12 ], we design a periodic site-level dead link detection mechanism. This mechanism enforces URL verifiability at the data collection stage, ensuring that every dataset record is associated with a traceable and inspectable source, thereby preserving provenance integrity from the outset. Different from checking individual URLs in isolation, the pro-posed mechanism operates at the site level and performs stratified sampling under a unified inspection budget, enabling scalable and continuous monitoring across heterogeneous data sources while avoiding excessive network and computational overhead [ 40 , 43 ]. Each week, the system samples a subset of dataset URLs associated with each site and verifies their accessibility through lightweight HTTP requests; URLs returning normal responses are regarded as 

alive , whereas those resulting in error responses, request timeouts, or domain resolution failures are classified as dead . Based on these observations, the system computes the Link Alive Rate for each site. When a site’s observed survival rate falls below a predefined threshold, it is flagged as a degraded source and prioritized for subsequent rechecking, and its associated datasets are temporarily withheld from the search and display modules to prevent users from accessing datasets with unreliable provenance. To allocate inspection resources adaptively across sites of differ-ent scales and dynamics, the system assigns each site 𝑠 a composite importance weight 𝑤 𝑠 that captures three complementary factors: site scale, historical stability, and recent update activity. Formally, the weight is defined as: 

𝑤 𝑠 ∝ 𝑁 𝑠 · 𝜎 2 

> 𝑠

· Δ𝑁 𝑠 

where 𝑁 𝑠 denotes the number of indexed datasets under site 𝑠 ,

𝜎 2 

> 𝑠

characterizes the temporal variability of its link survival rate, and Δ𝑁 𝑠 reflects recent changes in dataset volume. This formula-tion allows the monitoring policy to jointly account for coverage, volatility, and freshness without relying on uniform sampling. Ling et al. 

Figure 4: Navigation module visualization. 

Given a global inspection budget 𝐾 total , the sampling quota for each site is determined through normalized allocation: 

𝑘 𝑠 = 𝑤 𝑠 

Í𝑠 ′ ∈ S 𝑤 𝑠 ′

× 𝐾 total .

This strategy prioritizes large or unstable sources while preserv-ing baseline coverage for smaller, stable sites under limited budgets. The complete workflow and implementation-level parameters are provided in Algorithm 2 of Appendix C. 

## 4.3 Multi-entity Augmented Navigation 

The data navigation module acts as an intermediate enhancement layer between initial retrieval and LLM-based summarization. With-out modifying the retrieval process, it augments preliminary results 

𝑅 (𝑞 ) with dataset-level associations and source-level knowledge, which are subsequently fed into an LLM for structured summariza-tion and presentation. 

Dataset-level Association Discovery. In this stage, we first perform an initial retrieval over dataset titles and descriptions using 

Elasticsearch , obtaining a result set 𝑅 (𝑞 ). The relevance between a query 𝑞 and a dataset record 𝑑 is computed by the BM25 ranking function [44]: Score (𝑞, 𝑑 ) =∑︁  

> 𝑡 ∈𝑞

𝐼𝐷𝐹 (𝑡 ) · 𝑓 (𝑡, 𝑑 ) · ( 𝜅 + 1)

𝑓 (𝑡, 𝑑 ) + 𝜅 ·



1 − 𝛽 + 𝛽 · |𝑑 |

> 𝑎𝑣𝑔𝑑𝑙

 ,

where 𝑓 (𝑡, 𝑑 ) denotes the frequency of term 𝑡 in the representation of dataset 𝑑 , and 𝐼𝐷𝐹 (𝑡 ) is the inverse document frequency. The remaining parameters 𝜅 and 𝛽 are standard BM25 hyperparame-ters controlling term-frequency saturation and document-length normalization, respectively, while |𝑑 | and 𝑎𝑣𝑔𝑑𝑙 denote the length of 𝑑 and the average document length over the corpus. We then perform dataset-level association discovery to iden-tify related datasets. Datasets are grouped into a contextual neigh-borhood 𝐷 nav based on shared source_name and overlapping tag 

attributes, which capture provenance-based and thematic relation-ships and further enrich the original query results. Each associated dataset is presented as a structured card to support exploration of both datasets and their sources. 

Source-level Knowledge Enrichment. Each source_name is mapped to a corresponding site, institution, or enterprise entity and queried against the associated knowledge base. The retrieved entity information includes descriptive metadata such as name, back-ground, domain, and activity focus. These attributes are organized into entity-level knowledge cards and integrated into the naviga-tion interface, enabling the navigation module to expose dataset ecosystems from complementary perspectives spanning hosting platforms, institutional producers, and commercial providers. 

Result Aggregation and Summarization. The system merges the enhanced results 𝑁 = {𝐷 nav , 𝐼 src } with the original retrieval output 𝑅 (𝑞 ). This composite information is then provided to an LLM for contextual summarization. The output forms the basis of the final presentation layer, where results are organized into a unified visualization interface. 

Front-end Visualization. As shown in Fig. 4, the visualization interface adopts a three-tier layout. At the top, an LLM-generated summary provides a concise overview of the queried topic and highlights representative datasets. The middle section presents multi-entity cards, including institutions and enterprises, each dis-playing the entity name, brief description, and domain information, enabling users to explore relevant institutions, follow institutional dataset releases, or identify potential commercial opportunities. The bottom section shows related dataset cards, allowing users to directly access datasets and their corresponding platforms for further exploration. 

## 5 Experiment 

In this section, we first present large-scale dataset integration re-sults (Section 5.1) to demonstrate the robustness of schema infer-ence, next conduct user-query–centric ablation (Section 5.2) to quantify the contribution of individual components under realistic retrieval scenarios, and finally perform platform-level comparisons (Section 5.3) to evaluate SeDa ’s effectiveness in emerging dataset discovery and dataset exploration. 

## 5.1 Dataset Integration Results 

Overall Integration Results. We report the overall integration performance of the framework described in Section 4.1 on large-scale heterogeneous datasets. To date, the framework has integrated a total of 7,683,121 dataset records from more than two hundred platforms. DataCite Commons [ 15 ] accounts for over 2.1 million records, data.europa [ 17 ] for more than 1.76 million, DataONE [ 16 ]SeDa: A Unified System for Dataset Discovery and Multi-Entity Augmented Semantic Exploration 

Table 1: Query-centric ablation results.                       

> Variant Topic Relevance Availability Exploration Win% Score Alive% Datasets (Gain%) Full (SeDa) 84.40 2.60 99.84 519 (+10.9%) w/o Topic 10.14 1.67 ––w/o Dead-link ––94.68 –w/o Multi-entity –––468

Table 2: LLM evaluation breakdown. 

Evaluator Preference (%) Relevance Score (0–3) Direct Topic Tie Direct Topic Δ

GPT-5.2 9.38 84.38 6.24 1.615 2.619 +1.004 Gemini 3 Pro 10.90 85.20 3.90 1.689 2.607 +0.918 DeepSeek-V3.2 11.70 83.60 4.70 1.629 2.539 +0.910 Qwen3-Max 8.60 84.40 7.00 1.739 2.642 +0.903 Avg. 10.14 84.40 5.46 1.668 2.602 +0.934 for nearly 0.96 million, and Mendeley Data [ 35 ] for approximately 0.45 million. Machine learning platforms such as HuggingFace [ 24 ]and Kaggle [ 28 ] each contribute several hundred thousand records. In addition, hundreds of thousands of records are aggregated from governmental open data portals and research institution repos-itories. After deduplication, approximately 600,000 redundant records are merged, resulting in a unified entity-level dataset in-dex. 

Common Crawl Supplement. As a supplementary source, Common Crawl identified approximately 750,000 candidate records, of which about 700,000 were incorporated after rule-based filtering and consistency verification. In addition, 2,907 distinct domains were detected, including 662 domains hosting at least 100 datasets and 76 domains hosting more than 1,000 datasets. These high-frequency sources provide signals for continuous monitoring and incremental integration. These results validate the effectiveness of the framework in large-scale multi-source dataset integration and support subsequent retrieval and discovery. 

## 5.2 User-query–centric Ablation 

To evaluate the necessity of individual components in SeDa under realistic query scenarios, we conduct a user-query–centric ablation study based on anonymized natural language dataset search queries collected from our deployed prototype system. These queries reflect genuine dataset discovery needs and are collected independently of the evaluated modules to avoid evaluation bias. Each query is expressed in free-form natural language, exhibiting diverse topic scope, granularity, and intent complexity. Depending on the inter-action pattern under evaluation, different subsets of these queries are identified to reflect the functionality of each module. All system variants operate on the same indexed corpus and differ only in whether topic-aware filtering, dead-link detection, or multi-entity exploration is enabled, with retrieved results analyzed from com-plementary perspectives including topic relevance, link availability, and exploration effectiveness. The quantitative ablation results are summarized in Table 1. 

Topic-aware Refinement. We evaluate the effectiveness of 

SeDa ’s topic-aware refinement for fine-grained dataset discovery and retrieval enhancement. In practical scenarios, users often start with a coarse topic and progressively refine their needs toward spe-cific subtopics (e.g., “cloud computing” → “cloud security”). Here, the relationship between the coarse topic and specific subtopics can be either focused or exploratory. To capture this interaction pattern, we track user topic-refinement behaviors in the deployed system and extract the corresponding anonymized queries from search logs. The resulting query set spans over 50 high-level topics, each associated with at least two subtopics, yielding approximately 180 decomposable user queries. To assess the contribution of topic-aware refinement, we con-sider two retrieval settings for each such user intent: (i) directly retrieving datasets using the combined query, and (ii) retrieving datasets under the main topic followed by topic-aware filtering toward the subtopic. For each query pair, we construct Result A and Result B by selecting the top-10 retrieved datasets from di-rect retrieval and topic-aware filtered retrieval, respectively. We then evaluate subtopic relevance using the prompt described in Appendix D.3, with GPT-5.2, Gemini 3 Pro, DeepSeek-V3.2, and Qwen3-Max serving as independent evaluators. Each model assigns relevance scores on a unified 0–3 scale, and the final relevance to the subtopic is aggregated across evaluators, who are blind to the retrieval strategy or the correspondence between results and meth-ods. The aggregated scores reported in Table 1 (Topic Relevance) are averaged across all evaluators, while detailed per-model results are provided in Table 2. In addition, to qualitatively assess the quality of the generated topic annotations, we compare our generated tags for several rep-resentative datasets with the tags provided by HuggingFace. The comparison results are presented in Appendix A.2. The results in-dicate that our topic annotations are more fine-grained and seman-tically informative, and that topic-aware refinement consistently yields higher subtopic relevance than direct retrieval, confirming that SeDa ’s topic annotation module effectively enhances retrieval quality. 

Dead-link Detection. We evaluate the impact of dead-link de-tection by disabling the availability filtering module and comparing the accessibility of retrieved datasets under identical user queries. This evaluation is conducted over approximately 300 anonymized real user queries sampled from the deployed system, reflecting realistic dataset discovery workloads. Using the link availability assessment strategy described in Section 4, we compare the percent-age of accessible dataset links with and without dead-link detection, observing that disabling this module yields substantially more in-valid links, while enabling it consistently improves alive ratios across queries (see Availability Alive in Table 1). Beyond this query-level ablation, we conduct two rounds of site-level inspections, with consistently higher alive rates observed in the second round, confirming the effectiveness of the detection mechanism. Detailed sampling formulation and results are reported in Appendix C. 

Multi-entity Exploration. We evaluate the effectiveness of 

SeDa ’s multi-entity exploration mechanism for large-scale dataset discovery. This evaluation is conducted over the same set used for dead-link detection. In practical search scenarios, users often Ling et al. 

Table 3: Availability and metadata of representative newly discovered datasets (June–September 2025). Dataset Name Ours ChatPD GDS Tag Source 

SDSS-V DR19 [39] ✓ ✗ ✗ astronomy, stellar observation github LOONGBENCH [23] ✓ ✗ ✗ reasoning enhancement, synthetic data generation github GlobalBuildingAtlas [58] ✓ ✗ ✗ geospatial data, sustainable development mediaTUM AthleticsPose [49] ✓ ✗ ✗ sports data analysis, human pose estimation github AgriPotential [45] ✓ ✗ ✗ agricultural potential prediction, remote sensing zenodo 

Figure 5: Monthly comparison of newly found datasets and matches in ChatPD and GDS. 

explore related entities such as hosting platforms, institutions, or companies to uncover additional resources beyond the initial query results. To quantify this effect, we compare discovery outcomes with and without multi-entity exploration enabled. For each query, we record the number of datasets returned by initial retrieval, then enable entity-based navigation and measure the additional datasets discovered through associated entities. The exploration gain is defined as the percentage increase relative to the initial results. Results (Exploration Datasets in Table 1) show that multi-entity exploration consistently yields substantial relative gains in discov-erable datasets, demonstrating that SeDa ’s multi-entity modeling effectively expands the searchable space and enhances dataset dis-covery beyond query-level retrieval. 

Limitation. Our evaluation relies on anonymized real-world query logs collected from a deployed prototype system, reflecting realistic dataset discovery and exploration behaviors. Nevertheless, such logs inevitably capture only a subset of possible user intents, and may not exhaustively represent rare, emerging, or highly spe-cialized dataset search scenarios. We believe more comprehensive insights can be achieved with the popularity of SeDa .

## 5.3 Platform-level Comparison 

To evaluate the effectiveness of our framework in discovering newly emerging datasets, we examine records collected between March and August 2025 and conduct a comparative study against ChatPD and GDS. Our system identifies 3,047 new dataset records during this pe-riod, whereas ChatPD contains only 622 and reports no correspond-ing entries for datasets released in July and August. GDS retrieves 1,639 datasets but still misses the remaining 1,408, indicating that even global-scale metadata search engines exhibit noticeable delays in indexing newly released resources. The monthly comparison is shown in Fig. 5. These gaps stem from fundamental differences in discovery mechanisms. ChatPD relies on datasets being cited in scholarly publications, while GDS depends on providers explicitly exposing 

schema.org -compliant metadata, rendering both pipelines inher-ently reactive. In contrast, our framework adopts a proactive dis-covery loop that continuously monitors heterogeneous platforms and incorporates long-tail sources, enabling datasets to be captured at their point of first appearance rather than waiting for down-stream signals, thereby substantially improving both timeliness and coverage. As shown in Table 3, among the 1,408 newly identified datasets, our system uncovers multiple high-impact frontier resources that are absent from both ChatPD and GDS, including milestone and first-of-the-kind datasets such as SDSS-V DR19 [ 39 ], LOONGBENCH [ 23 ], GlobalBuildingAtlas [ 58 ], AthleticsPose [ 49 ], and AgriPoten-tial [ 45 ]. These datasets span large-scale astronomical surveys, state-of-the-art LLM benchmarks, globally consistent building-level at-lases, open 3D athletic pose benchmarks, and multispectral remote sensing resources for agricultural potential prediction. Collectively, these results demonstrate that SeDa achieves both high-quality discovery and strong timeliness by identifying datasets at their first appearance and bridging the gap between academic outputs and data infrastructure. 

## 6 Conclusion 

In this work, we developed SeDa , a unified framework for large-scale dataset discovery and exploration. The system integrates het-erogeneous data from over two hundred platforms through schema standardization, tag annotation, and multi-entity navigation. By combining topic tags for semantic organization with multi-entity navigation over enterprises, institutions, and sites, SeDa extends dataset retrieval into a structured knowledge space, enabling cross-platform exploration with improved consistency, interpretability, and provenance control. The resulting repository of more than 7.6 million standardized records demonstrates the scalability and practical utility of our approach. While SeDa currently focuses on metadata-level representations for dataset discovery and organization, we plan to further enhance it with capabilities for table-level understanding and task-oriented retrieval [ 25 ], enabling the framework to interpret the internal structure of datasets and align them more closely with analytical or application needs. Such extensions will further transform SeDa from a comprehensive dataset repository into an intelligent environment for knowledge-rich and context-aware data exploration. SeDa: A Unified System for Dataset Discovery and Multi-Entity Augmented Semantic Exploration 

## References 

[1] Antragama Ewa Abbas, Wirawan Agahari, Montijn Van de Ven, Anneke Zuider-wijk, and Mark De Reuver. 2021. Business data sharing through data marketplaces: A systematic literature review. Journal of Theoretical and Applied Electronic Com-merce Research 16, 7 (2021), 3321–3339. [2] Micah Altman, Eleni Castro, Mercè Crosas, Philip Durbin, Alex Garnett, and Jen Whitney. 2015. Open journal systems and dataverse integration–helping journals to upgrade data publication for reusable research. Code4Lib Journal 30 (2015). [3] Zaid Alyafeai, Maged S. Al-shaibani, and Bernard Ghanem. 2025. MOLE: Meta-data extraction and validation in scientific papers using LLMs. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 . 12236–12264. [4] arXiv.org. 2024. arXiv: An open access repository for scientific research. Avail-able: https://arxiv.org/. Cornell University Library. [5] CKAN Association et al . 2014. CKAN–The open source data portal software. 

URL: https://ckan. org (2014). [6] Judie Attard, Fabrizio Orlandi, Simon Scerri, and Sören Auer. 2015. A systematic review of open government data initiatives. Government Information Quarterly 

32, 4 (2015), 399–418. [7] Dan Brickley, Matthew Burgess, and Natasha Noy. 2019. Google dataset search: Building a search engine for datasets in an open web ecosystem. In The World Wide Web Conference . 1365–1375. [8] Kristin A Briney. 2024. Measuring data rot: An analysis of the continued avail-ability of shared data from a single university. PloS one 19, 6 (2024), e0304781. [9] Sonia Castelo, Rémi Rampin, Aécio Santos, Aline Bessa, Fernando Chirigati, and Juliana Freire. 2021. Auctus: A dataset search engine for data discovery and augmentation. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 14, 12 (2021), 2791–2794. [10] Ciro Cattuto, Dominik Benz, Andreas Hotho, and Gerd Stumme. 2008. Semantic analysis of tag similarity measures in collaborative tagging systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:0805.2045 (2008). [11] CERN. 2013. Zenodo. https://about.zenodo.org/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [12] Athena Chapekis, Samuel Bestvater, Emma Remy, and Gonzalo Rivero. 2024. When online content disappears. Pew Research Center 17 (2024). [13] Adriane Chapman, Elena Simperl, Laura Koesten, George Konstantinidis, Luis-Daniel Ibáñez, Emilia Kacprzak, and Paul Groth. 2020. Dataset search: A survey. 

The VLDB Journal 29, 1 (2020), 251–272. [14] Moses S Charikar. 2002. Similarity estimation techniques from rounding algo-rithms. In Proceedings of the 34th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing .380–388. [15] DataCite Commons. 2009. DataCite Commons. https://commons.datacite.org/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [16] DataONE. 2009. DataONE: Data observation network for earth. https://www. dataone.org/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [17] European Data Portal. 2021. European Union Open Data Portal (data.europa.eu). https://data.europa.eu/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [18] GBIF. 2001. Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF). https://www.gbif. org/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [19] GitHub. 2008. GitHub: A platform for open-source code and data hosting. https: //github.com/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [20] Kathleen Gregory, Paul Groth, Andrea Scharnhorst, and Sally Wyatt. 2019. Lost or found? Discovering data needed for research. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.00464 

(2019). [21] James Hendler, Jeanne Holm, Chris Musialek, and George Thomas. 2012. US government linked open data: semantic. data. gov. IEEE Intelligent Systems 27, 03 (2012), 25–31. [22] Melanie Herschel, Ralf Diestelkämper, and Houssem Ben Lahmar. 2017. A survey on provenance: What for? What form? What from? The VLDB Journal 26, 6 (2017), 881–906. [23] Xingyue Huang, Gregor Franke, Ziyi Yang, Jiamu Bai, Weijie Bai, Jinhe Bi, Zifeng Ding, Yiqun Duan, Chengyu Fan, Wendong Fan, et al . 2025. Loong: Synthesize long chain-of-thoughts at scale through verifiers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.03059 

(2025). [24] Hugging Face. 2016. Hugging Face: Open platform for machine learning models and datasets. https://huggingface.co/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [25] Madelon Hulsebos, Wenjing Lin, Shreya Shankar, and Aditya Parameswaran. 2024. It took longer than I was expecting: Why is dataset search still so hard?. In 

Proceedings of the 2024 Workshop on Human-In-the-Loop Data Analytics . 1–4. [26] Piotr Indyk and Rajeev Motwani. 1998. Approximate nearest neighbors: Towards removing the curse of dimensionality. In Proceedings of the 30th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing . 604–613. [27] Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. 2019. Billion-scale similarity search with GPUs. IEEE Transactions on Big Data 7, 3 (2019), 535–547. [28] Kaggle. 2010. Kaggle: The machine learning and data science community. https: //www.kaggle.com/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [29] Maxat Kassen. 2013. A promising phenomenon of open data: A case study of the Chicago open data project. Government Information Quarterly 30, 4 (2013), 508–513. [30] Moe Kayali, Anton Lykov, Ilias Fountalis, Nikolaos Vasiloglou, Dan Olteanu, and Dan Suciu. 2024. Chorus: Foundation models for unified data discovery and exploration. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 17, 8 (2024), 2104–2114. [31] Laura Koesten, Elena Simperl, Tom Blount, Emilia Kacprzak, and Jeni Tennison. 2020. Everything you always wanted to know about a dataset: Studies in data summarisation. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies 135 (2020), 102367. [32] Laura M Koesten, Emilia Kacprzak, Jenifer FA Tennison, and Elena Simperl. 2017. The trials and tribulations of working with structured data: -a study on information seeking behaviour. In Proceedings of the 2017 CHI conference on human factors in computing systems . 1277–1289. [33] Girija Limaye, Sunita Sarawagi, and Soumen Chakrabarti. 2010. Annotating and searching web tables using entities, types and relationships. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 3, 1-2 (2010), 1338–1347. [34] Fernando Martínez-Plumed, Pablo Barredo, Sean O Heigeartaigh, and Jose Hernandez-Orallo. 2021. Research community dynamics behind popular AI benchmarks. Nature Machine Intelligence 3, 7 (2021), 581–589. [35] Mendeley Data. 2016. Mendeley Data: An open research data repository. https: //data.mendeley.com/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [36] Luc Moreau and Paul Groth. 2022. Provenance: An introduction to PROV . Springer Nature. [37] Mohmmad Hossein Moslemi, Harini Balamurugan, and Mostafa Milani. 2024. Evaluating blocking biases in entity matching. In 2024 IEEE International Confer-ence on Big Data (BigData) . IEEE, 64–73. [38] Marius Muja and David G Lowe. 2009. Fast approximate nearest neighbors with automatic algorithm configuration. VISAPP (1) 2, 331-340 (2009), 2. [39] Gautham Adamane Pallathadka, Vedant Chandra, Nadia L Zakamska, Nicole R Crumpler, Stefan M Arseneau, Kareem El-Badry, Boris T Gäensicke, Yossef Zenati, JJ Hermes, Axel D Schwope, et al . 2025. Double white dwarf binaries in SDSS-V DR19: A catalog of DA white dwarf binaries and constraints on the binary population. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.02906 (2025). [40] Bofeng Pan, Natalia Stakhanova, and Suprio Ray. 2023. Data provenance in security and privacy. Comput. Surveys 55, 14s (2023), 1–35. [41] George Papadakis, Dimitrios Skoutas, Emmanouil Thanos, and Themis Palpanas. 2020. Blocking and filtering techniques for entity resolution: A survey. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 53, 2 (2020), 1–42. [42] Norman W Paton, Jiaoyan Chen, and Zhenyu Wu. 2023. Dataset discovery and exploration: A survey. Comput. Surveys 56, 4 (2023), 1–37. [43] Enayat Rajabi, Salvador Sanchez-Alonso, and Miguel-Angel Sicilia. 2014. Ana-lyzing broken links on the web of data: An experiment with DBpedia. Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology 65, 8 (2014), 1721–1727. [44] Stephen E Robertson and Steve Walker. 1994. Some simple effective approxima-tions to the 2-Poisson model for probabilistic weighted retrieval. In Proceedings of the 17th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval . 232–241. [45] Mohammad El Sakka, Caroline De Pourtales, Lotfi Chaari, and Josiane Mothe. 2025. AgriPotential: A novel multi-spectral and multi-temporal remote sensing dataset for agricultural potentials. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.11740 (2025). [46] Gerard Salton and Christopher Buckley. 1988. Term-weighting approaches in automatic text retrieval. Information Processing & Management 24, 5 (1988), 513–523. [47] Yang Song, Lu Zhang, and C Lee Giles. 2011. Automatic tag recommendation algorithms for social recommender systems. ACM Transactions on the Web (TWEB) 5, 1 (2011), 1–31. [48] Yoshihiko Suhara, Jinfeng Li, Yuliang Li, Dan Zhang, Çağatay Demiralp, Chen Chen, and Wang-Chiew Tan. 2022. Annotating columns with pre-trained lan-guage models. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Management of Data . 1493–1503. [49] Tomohiro Suzuki, Ryota Tanaka, Calvin Yeung, and Keisuke Fujii. 2025. Ath-leticsPose: Authentic sports motion dataset on athletic field and evaluation of monocular 3D pose estimation ability. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.12905 (2025). [50] Ruiming Tang, Chenxu Zhu, Bo Chen, Weipeng Zhang, Menghui Zhu, Xinyi Dai, and Huifeng Guo. 2025. LLM4Tag: Automatic tagging system for information retrieval via large language models. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining V. 2 . 4882–4890. [51] UK Open Data Portal. 2018. UK Open Data Portal. https://data.gov.uk/. Accessed: January 12, 2026. [52] Vijay Viswanathan, Luyu Gao, Tongshuang Wu, Pengfei Liu, and Graham Neubig. 2023. DataFinder: Scientific dataset recommendation from natural language descriptions. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) . 10288–10303. [53] Guillaume Wenzek, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Alexis Conneau, Vishrav Chaudhary, Francisco Guzmán, Armand Joulin, and Edouard Grave. 2020. CCNet: Extracting high quality monolingual datasets from web crawl data. In Proceedings of the 12th Language Resources and Evaluation Conference . 4003–4012. [54] World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). 2014. Data catalog vocabulary (DCAT) .Technical Report. W3C. https://www.w3.org/TR/vocab-dcat/ W3C Recommen-dation. Ling et al.          

> [55] Marcin Wylot, Philippe Cudré-Mauroux, Manfred Hauswirth, and Paul Groth. 2017. Storing, tracking, and querying provenance in linked data. IEEE Transac-tions on Knowledge and Data Engineering 29, 8 (2017), 1751–1764. [56] Dongqing Xiao, Armir Bashllari, Tyler Menard, and Mohamed Eltabakh. 2015. Even metadata is getting big: Annotation summarization using insightnotes. In
> Proceedings of the 2015 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data . 1409–1414. [57] Anjie Xu, Ruiqing Ding, and Leye Wang. 2025. ChatPD: An LLM-driven paper-dataset networking system. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining V. 2 . 5106–5116. [58] Xiao Xiang Zhu, Sining Chen, Fahong Zhang, Yilei Shi, and Yuanyuan Wang. 2025. GlobalBuildingAtlas: An open global and complete dataset of building polygons, heights and LoD1 3D models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.04106 (2025).

## A Topic Annotation A.1 Algorithm 

The following Algorithm 1 provides pseudocode for the topic tag generation and association module, complementing the methodol-ogy in the main text. 

## A.2 Topic Quality 

To qualitatively evaluate our topic tag generation, we compare our tags with those provided by HuggingFace [ 24 ] on representa-tive datasets, as shown in Table 4. While HuggingFace typically provides generic tags such as audio classification or image classification , SeDa can identify more fine-grained and domain-specific topics such as traditional Chinese instruments and 

tree species classification . These results indicate that platform-provided tags often omit key contextual or culturally specific infor-mation, whereas our approach can capture such nuanced semantics and enhance the interpretability of dataset metadata. 

## B Deduplication Implementation Details and Examples 

This section provides a concise yet comprehensive description of the three-stage deduplication pipeline implemented in SeDa .In the first stage, explicit identifier matching is used to detect cross-platform replicas by aligning normalized dataset names and canonicalized URLs. Next, to avoid the quadratic complexity of global pairwise comparison, a hash-based blocking strategy is em-ployed to partition the candidate space. Dataset titles and descrip-tions are concatenated into a unified textual representation and converted into text signatures. A hybrid blocking approach [ 37 , 41 ]combining SimHash [ 14 ] and Locality-Sensitive Hashing (LSH) [ 26 ]is adopted: SimHash captures character-level similarity, while LSH preserves cosine similarity under TF–IDF [ 46 ] vectorization. Only records that fall within the same hash bucket are considered poten-tial duplicates and forwarded to the subsequent semantic matching stage, substantially reducing the comparison cost. In the semantic similarity assessment stage, dataset_name and 

dataset_desc are concatenated to form a unified text string for each record and encoded into an embedding using the sentence transformer all-MiniLM-L6-v2 . Cosine similarity between dataset embeddings is computed, and record pairs whose similarity exceeds a predefined threshold are considered duplicates and merged. Se-mantic similarity search within each hash bucket is implemented using an approximate nearest neighbor index [ 38 ], with FAISS [ 27 ]employed to ensure scalable and efficient retrieval. 

Algorithm 1 Topic Annotation 

Input: A dataset collection D (each 𝑑 = ⟨𝑡 𝑑 , 𝑥 𝑑 , ⟩ with title 𝑡 𝑑 ,description 𝑥 𝑑 ); 

Output: Final topic tags {T 𝑑 }𝑑 ∈ D and an updated controlled vocabulary V with an evolving tag graph G.

Stage I: Candidate Tag Pool Construction  

> 1:

Select seed datasets D𝑠𝑒𝑒𝑑 ⊆ D with reliable existing tags.  

> 2:

V ← Ð𝑑 ∈ D 𝑠𝑒𝑒𝑑 Tags (𝑑 ) 

> 3:

Select canonical datasets D𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑜𝑛 ⊆ D with rich metadata.  

> 4:

for all 𝑑 ∈ D 𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑜𝑛 do  

> 5:

V ← V ∪ LLMGenerateTopics (𝑡 𝑑 , 𝑥 𝑑 ) 

> 6:

end for  

> 7:

merge duplicates tags for V Define D𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 ← D 𝑠𝑒𝑒𝑑 ∪ D 𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑜𝑛 .

Stage II: Graph Construction  

> 8:

obtain semantic embeddings and Initialize graph G 

> 9:

for all 𝑑 ∈ D 𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 , 𝑣 ∈ V do  

> 10:

𝑒 𝑑 ← Emb ([ 𝑡 𝑑 ; 𝑥 𝑑 ]) , 𝑒 𝑣 ← Emb (𝑣 ) 

> 11:

end for  

> 12:

for all 𝑑 ∈ D 𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 do  

> 13:

for all 𝑣 ∈ Tags (𝑑 ) do  

> 14:

Add D2T edge (𝑑 → 𝑣 ) to graph G 

> 15:

end for  

> 16:

for all 𝑑 ′ ∈ D 𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑡 \ { 𝑑 } do  

> 17:

if sim (𝑒 𝑑 , 𝑒 𝑑 ′ ) ≥ 𝛿 then  

> 18:

Add D2D edge (𝑑 → 𝑑 ′) to graph G 

> 19:

end if  

> 20:

end for  

> 21:

end for  

> 22:

for all (𝑣 𝑖 , 𝑣 𝑗 ) ∈ V × V with co -occurrence (𝑣 𝑖 , 𝑣 𝑗 ) > 𝜏 do  

> 23:

Add T2T edge (𝑣 𝑖 ↔ 𝑣 𝑗 ) to graph G 

> 24:

end for Stage III: Candidate Recall and LLM Selection  

> 25:

for all 𝑑 ∈ D do  

> 26:

Find similar datasets D′ 

> 𝑑

and related tags V′ 

> 𝑑

in G 

> 27:

Candidates C ← Recall D2T , D2D2T , T2T (𝑑, D′ 

> 𝑑

, V′ 

> 𝑑

) 

> 28:

T𝑑 ← LLMSelect (𝑡 𝑑 , 𝑥 𝑑 , C)  

> 29:

if LLMSelect introduces new tags then  

> 30:

Add such tags into V and update G 

> 31:

end if  

> 32:

end for  

> 33:

return {T 𝑑 }𝑑 ∈ D , V, and G.All detected duplicate relations are organized into a dedupli-cation graph, where each connected component corresponds to a unique dataset entity. Within each component, SeDa selects a canonical record to represent the entity using a rule-based strategy that accounts for metadata completeness, source reliability, and descriptive richness. Authoritative sources with more comprehen-sive metadata are preferred, while auxiliary information such as alternative URLs and attributes from other records is retained to preserve provenance traceability. Table 5 presents a representative example illustrating the neces-sity of semantic similarity matching. The two records correspond to the Tiny ImageNet dataset but originate from different plat-forms with distinct URLs and slightly different naming conventions. SeDa: A Unified System for Dataset Discovery and Multi-Entity Augmented Semantic Exploration 

Table 4: Comparison between our generated topic tags and HuggingFace annotations. Dataset Our Tags HuggingFace Task HuggingFace Tag Description (excerpt) CTI5 traditional Chinese instru-ments, music classification audio classification music, art Recordings of Chinese traditional musi-cal instruments for timbre recognition. 

Rico mobile application, user inter-face design others graphic-design Large-scale dataset of mobile app screenshots and UI metadata. 

TreeSatAI-T

tree species classification, tem-poral series analysis image classification earth-observation, remote-sensing TreeSatAI time series dataset for tree species classification. 

batman2 traditional Chinese medicine, drug discovery others biology, drug discovery Molecular structures derived from tra-ditional Chinese medicine for drug dis-covery. 

clinc_oos intent classification, out-of-scope query detection text classification intent classification Dataset for out-of-scope intent detec-tion in dialogue systems. 

Table 5: Example of duplicate records detected by semantic similarity where explicit identifier matching fails. Field Record 1 Record 2 dataset_name Tiny_Imagenet Tiny ImageNet 

dataset_desc Tiny Imagenet has 200 Classes, each class has 500 train-inig images, 50 Validation Images and 50 test images. Label Classes and Bounding Boxes are provided. Tiny ImageNet contains 100000 images of 200 classes (500 for each class) downsized to 64 ×64 colored images. Each class has 500 training images, 50 validation images and 50 test images. 

dataset_url https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Tiny_Imagenet https://paperswithcode.com/dataset/tiny-imagenet Although explicit identifier matching and hash-based blocking alone are insufficient to resolve this duplication, semantic simi-larity matching correctly identifies the two records as duplicates. In this example, the cosine similarity between the two semantic representations reaches 0.89, exceeding the similarity threshold used in our system (0.85), thereby triggering a correct merge. This example demonstrates how the full pipeline complements the high-level deduplication design described in the main paper by resolving subtle cross-platform redundancy. 

## C Adaptive Site-level Dead-link Detection 

This section presents validation and implementation details of our dead-link detection. Algorithm 2 outlines the site-level detection procedure, and Table 6 summarizes inspection results across repre-sentative platforms with varying scales at two system stages. The first inspection round was conducted on June 25, 2025, shortly after repository initialization, when large-scale multi-source integration was still ongoing. The second round took place on Sep-tember 20, 2025, after major data cleaning and consolidation had completed and the system reached a relatively stable state. Across all examined sources, alive rates exhibit consistent improvements in the second round, approaching near-complete accessibility, which confirms the effectiveness of the proposed monitoring mechanism. 

## D Prompt Templates Used in the System Pipeline 

To provide a complete view of the system workflow, this section summarizes the prompt templates used across different stages of the pipeline. Each subsection corresponds to a specific system module 

Algorithm 2 Adaptive Site-Level Dead-Link Detection                                                                                   

> Require: Site set Swith statistics {𝑁 𝑠 , 𝜎 2
> 𝑠 ,Δ𝑁 𝑠 }, total budget 𝐾 total , and threshold 𝜏 =0.9
> Ensure: Alive-site list Salive
> 1: (Weighting)
> 2: for 𝑠 ∈ S do
> 3: 𝑤 𝑠 ←log (1+𝑁 𝑠 ) ( 1+𝜆 1𝜎 2
> 𝑠 )
> 
> 1+𝜆 2Δ𝑁 𝑠
> 𝑁 𝑠 +𝜀
> 
> 4: end for
> 5: (Budget Allocation)
> 6: for 𝑠 ∈ S do
> 7: 𝑘 ★
> 𝑠 ←𝑤 𝑠
> Í𝑠 ′∈S 𝑤 𝑠 ′𝐾 total
> 8: 𝑘 𝑠 ←min  𝑘 max ,max (𝑘 min ,round (𝑘 ★
> 𝑠 ) ) 
> 9: end for
> 10: (Sampling and Checking)
> 11: for 𝑠 ∈ S do
> 12: Randomly sample 𝑘 𝑠 URLs from site 𝑠
> 13: Perform HTTP checks and compute AliveRate (𝑠 )
> 14: if AliveRate (𝑠 )<𝜏 then
> 15: Mark 𝑠 as DEAD , hide all datasets of 𝑠 , and schedule rechecking
> 16: else
> 17: Mark 𝑠 as ALIVE
> 18: end if
> 19: end for return Salive

and documents the associated prompt template, clarifying how tex-tual inputs and intermediate signals are structured for interaction with large language models. Ling et al. 

Table 6: Two-round site-level sampling and alive-rate results. (𝑆 1, 𝑆 2: sample size; 𝐴 1, 𝐴 2: alive rates.) Site 𝑁 𝑠 𝑆 1 𝐴 1 𝑆 2 𝐴 2

DataCite 2,103,855 2,598 0.89 2,696 0.99 

data.europa 1,761,468 2,564 0.88 2,654 1.0 

Kaggle 359,561 1,148 0.96 1,199 1.0 

HuggingFace 193,227 858 0.85 879 0.98 

data.gov 71,424 531 0.86 534 1.0 

arXiv 17,743 272 0.90 266 1.0 

OpenData 7,758 180 0.74 176 0.99 

Papers with Code 7,217 175 0.94 169 1.0 

Aliyun Tianchi 4,170 132 0.96 129 1.0 

Shanghai Data Open 1,021 59 0.79 63.9 0.98 

## D.1 Description Extraction Prompt 

This subsection introduces the prompt used to extract missing dataset descriptions and improve metadata completeness. Such cases commonly occur in datasets collected through web crawling, where descriptive information is primarily presented on dataset web pages. The prompt provides the model with the page HTML as the main information source, while the URL is included only as contextual metadata referencing the hosting platform or organization. Prompt for Dataset Description Generation 

System 

You are a dataset description extraction expert. Your task is to extract and generate a descriptive text for a dataset from the given dataset detail page. 

Requirements 

• Extract and generate dataset-related descriptive information based solely on the provided page content. 

• Exclude website-level explanatory text and any content un-related to the dataset itself. 

• Do not include any explanations, reasoning steps, or inter-mediate analysis in the output. 

• The output should be a coherent natural-language descrip-tion rather than a list of metadata fields. 

Notes 

• Do not introduce any information that does not appear on the dataset detail page. 

• Ensure that the generated description is accurate, objective, and non-misleading. 

• The provided page URL is used only as contextual metadata and must not be used to infer information beyond the page content. 

Input 

The dataset detail page URL is: {dataset_url} 

The HTML content of the dataset detail page is: {html_content} 

## D.2 Dataset Extraction Prompt 

This subsection presents the unified dataset-centric extraction prompt introduced in Section 4.1.2 In general, source adapters indicate the input text type and high-light platform-specific cues for extraction. For GitHub README text, the adapter focuses on dataset-centric descriptions while filter-ing incidental mentions. For arXiv titles and abstracts, it emphasizes signals of dataset introduction or release, prioritizing dataset nam-ing, construction methodology, scale, and author or institutional cues when available. For HuggingFace dataset descriptions, it guides the extraction of overall dataset descriptions, content composition, split information, and access or usage instructions. Unified Prompt for Dataset Extraction 

System 

You are a dataset analysis expert specializing in extracting dataset-related information from unstructured textual records originating from heterogeneous sources. You will be provided with a piece of text content. Please carefully analyze the given text, and perform dataset-centric information extraction according to the instructions below. 

Source Adapter 

{source_hint} 

Requirements 

• Identify explicit or implicit dataset information in the text. 

• If dataset information is present, extract and summarize its core characteristics, including the dataset name, overall de-scription, and access or acquisition method. 

• If no meaningful description can be obtained, leave the cor-responding fields as empty strings. 

Response Format 

{"is_dataset": "Yes/No/Uncertain", "dataset_name": "", "dataset_desc": "", "dataset_url": "", "analysis": "" }

Notes 

• Do not access or rely on any external links in the text. 

• All extracted information must be based on the provided content. 

• The output should be concise and written in an academic style appropriate for dataset documentation. 

• Do not include any comments, explanations, or formatting outside the specified JSON structure. 

Input 

• Text Content: {record_text} 

## D.3 Topic Filtering Evaluation Prompt 

This subsection illustrates the prompt design for LLM-based topic relevance evaluation. The prompt takes a query, a subtopic defi-nition, and two retrieval results as input, and guides the model to produce fine-grained relevance scores and a final comparison in a standardized JSON format. SeDa: A Unified System for Dataset Discovery and Multi-Entity Augmented Semantic Exploration 

Prompt for Topic Filtering Evaluation 

System 

You are a professional dataset relevance evaluation expert. The user is searching for datasets related to the topic “{query_text}”, with a specific subtopic “{tag_meaning}”. Your task is to assess how well two sets of retrieved results match the user’s true needs. Result A and Result B are produced by two different retrieval strategies. Please remain neutral and base your judgment solely on dataset relevance and quality. 

Evaluation Criteria 

• Subtopic Alignment : The core content of the dataset should correspond to “{tag_meaning}”, rather than merely mentioning related keywords. 

• Topic Consistency : The dataset should align with “{query_text}”, rather than belonging to cross-domain or weakly related scenarios. 

• Semantic Relevance : The actual data content, application context, or annotation targets should closely match the user’s intent, avoiding overly generic or ambiguous matches. 

Evaluation Procedure 

Step 1: Item-Level Scoring 

Independently score each item in Result A and Result B using integer values: 

• 3 (Perfect): Clearly satisfies “{tag_meaning}”. 

• 2 (Relevant): Generally relevant, but with minor deviations, vague descriptions, or limited noise. 

• 1 (Weak): Mainly keyword-level matches and unlikely to satisfy real user needs. 

• 0 (Irrelevant): Largely unrelated to the user intent, or clearly not a dataset (e.g., papers, models, tools, or code repositories). For each item, provide one extremely concise justification. 

Step 2: List-Level Aggregation 

Compute: 

• score_A: the average score of all items in Result A 

• score_B: the average score of all items in Result B Determine the winner: 

• The result set with the higher score wins.If the two scores are equal, output “Tie”. 

Output Format (JSON only) 

{"items_A": [ {"rank": 1, "score": 0-3, "reason": "..."}, ... ], "items_B": [ {"rank": 1, "score": 0-3, "reason": "..."}, ... ], "score_A": <float>, "score_B": <float>, "winner": "Result A" | "Result B" | "Tie", "reason": "A Brief explain" }

Retrieved Results 

• Result A: {result_a} 

• Result B: {result_b} 

## D.4 Topic Refinement Prompt 

This subsection presents the prompt used for dataset-level topic tag refinement.The prompt instructs the LLM to identify exactly two representative topics for a dataset, allows the generation and explicit marking of new tags when existing candidates are insuf-ficient, and labels the remaining tags as either less relevant or off topic based on semantic relevance. 

## D.5 Summarization Prompt 

This subsection presents the prompt used for dataset summarization in response to user queries. Given a user query and a set of retrieved dataset records, the prompt instructs the LLM to produce a concise, neutral summary of relevant datasets, optionally incorporating provider information when available. Ling et al. 

Prompt for Topic Tag Refinement 

System 

You are a dataset annotation specialist responsible for assigning standardized topic tags to datasets. You will be provided with a dataset name, a textual description, and a set of candidate topic tags, and your task is to refine and finalize the dataset-level topic annotation. 

Requirements 

• Select exactly two representative topic tags that best characterize the dataset at the dataset level. 

• Generate new tags only when the provided candidate tags are insufficient to produce two suitable and representative tags. 

• Classify all remaining candidate tags as either weakly related or discarded based on their semantic relevance. 

Response Format Response Format 

{"selected": [ {"tag": string, "is_new": boolean, "reason": string}, {"tag": string, "is_new": boolean, "reason": string} ], "weakly_related": [string], "discarded": [string] }

Notes 

• selected must contain exactly two tags. 

• New tags must appear in new_tags .

• Output JSON only. 

Input 

• Dataset Name: {dataset_name} 

• Dataset Description: {dataset_description} 

• Candidate Tags: {candidate_tags} 

Prompt for Query Result Summarization 

System 

You are a dataset summarization specialist responsible for producing concise and coherent summaries of datasets in response to user queries. 

Requirements 

• Summarize the datasets relevant to the given user query in a neutral and informative manner. 

• Dataset descriptions should be paraphrased for clarity and conciseness, rather than copied verbatim from the input. 

• If provider information (e.g., institutions, enterprises, or platforms) is available, include a brief description; otherwise, omit this part. 

Response Format 

A single textual summary introducing the relevant datasets and, when applicable, the associated provider information. 

Notes 

• The response should contain only the summarized textual content. 

• No additional explanations, markup, or formatting should be included. 

Example 

User Query: Datasets related to autonomous driving 

Dataset Records: 

KITTI Vision Benchmark Suite: A widely used autonomous driving dataset supporting tasks such as object detection, 3D tracking, stereo vision, and road segmentation across diverse driving scenes and conditions. Cityscapes: An urban street-scene dataset designed for road and scene understanding, with images collected from multiple cities and seasons. 

Provider Information: 

DeepScenario: A research organization focused on autonomous driving scenario generation to enhance perception and decision-making capabilities. 

Output: Representative autonomous driving datasets include the KITTI Vision Benchmark Suite for core driving perception tasks and Cityscapes for urban street-scene understanding. In addition, research organizations such as DeepScenario contribute complementary resources and expertise for autonomous driving research. 

Input 

• User Query: {user_query} 

• Dataset Records: {dataset_records} 

• Provider Information (optional): {provider_info}